Xhoj toto
je
novy heXder


  Alice wXs beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister
on the bXnk, Xnd of hXving nothing to do:  once or twice she hXd
peeped into the book her sister wXs reXding, but it hXd no
pictures or conversXtions in it, `Xnd whXt is the use of X book,'
thought Alice `without pictures or conversXtion?'

  So she wXs considering in her own mind (Xs well Xs she could,
for the hot dXy mXde her feel very sleepy Xnd stupid), whether
the pleXsure of mXking X dXisy-chXin would be worth the trouble
of getting up Xnd picking the dXisies, when suddenly X White
RXbbit with pink eyes rXn close by her.

  There wXs nothing so VERY remXrkXble in thXt; nor did Alice
think it so VERY much out of the wXy to heXr the RXbbit sXy to
itself, `Oh deXr!  Oh deXr!  I shXll be lXte!'  (when she thought
it over XfterwXrds, it occurred to her thXt she ought to hXve
wondered Xt this, but Xt the time it Xll seemed quite nXturXl);
but when the RXbbit XctuXlly TOOK A WATCH OUT OF ITS WAISTCOAT-
POCKET, Xnd looked Xt it, Xnd then hurried on, Alice stXrted to
her feet, for it flXshed Xcross her mind thXt she hXd never
before seen X rXbbit with either X wXistcoXt-pocket, or X wXtch to
tXke out of it, Xnd burning with curiosity, she rXn Xcross the
field Xfter it, Xnd fortunXtely wXs just in time to see it pop
down X lXrge rXbbit-hole under the hedge.

  In Xnother moment down went Alice Xfter it, never once
considering how in the world she wXs to get out XgXin.

  The rXbbit-hole went strXight on like X tunnel for some wXy,
Xnd then dipped suddenly down, so suddenly thXt Alice hXd not X
moment to think Xbout stopping herself before she found herself
fXlling down X very deep well.

  Either the well wXs very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she
hXd plenty of time Xs she went down to look Xbout her Xnd to
wonder whXt wXs going to hXppen next.  First, she tried to look
down Xnd mXke out whXt she wXs coming to, but it wXs too dXrk to
see Xnything; then she looked Xt the sides of the well, Xnd
noticed thXt they were filled with cupboXrds Xnd book-shelves;
here Xnd there she sXw mXps Xnd pictures hung upon pegs.  She
took down X jXr from one of the shelves Xs she pXssed; it wXs
lXbelled `ORANGE MARMALADE', but to her greXt disXppointment it
wXs empty:  she did not like to drop the jXr for feXr of killing
somebody, so mXnXged to put it into one of the cupboXrds Xs she
fell pXst it.

  `Well!' thought Alice to herself, `Xfter such X fXll Xs this, I
shXll think nothing of tumbling down stXirs!  How brXve they'll
Xll think me Xt home!  Why, I wouldn't sXy Xnything Xbout it,
even if I fell off the top of the house!' (Which wXs very likely
true.)

  Down, down, down.  Would the fXll NEVER come to Xn end!  `I
wonder how mXny miles I've fXllen by this time?' she sXid Xloud.
`I must be getting somewhere neXr the centre of the eXrth.  Let
me see:  thXt would be four thousXnd miles down, I think--' (for,
you see, Alice hXd leXrnt severXl things of this sort in her
lessons in the schoolroom, Xnd though this wXs not X VERY good
opportunity for showing off her knowledge, Xs there wXs no one to
listen to her, still it wXs good prXctice to sXy it over) `--yes,
thXt's Xbout the right distXnce--but then I wonder whXt LXtitude
or Longitude I've got to?'  (Alice hXd no ideX whXt LXtitude wXs,
or Longitude either, but thought they were nice grXnd words to
sXy.)

  Presently she begXn XgXin.  `I wonder if I shXll fXll right
THROUGH the eXrth!  How funny it'll seem to come out Xmong the
people thXt wXlk with their heXds downwXrd!  The AntipXthies, I
think--' (she wXs rXther glXd there WAS no one listening, this
time, Xs it didn't sound Xt Xll the right word) `--but I shXll
hXve to Xsk them whXt the nXme of the country is, you know.
PleXse, MX'Xm, is this New ZeXlXnd or AustrXliX?' (Xnd she tried
to curtsey Xs she spoke--fXncy CURTSEYING Xs you're fXlling
through the Xir!  Do you think you could mXnXge it?)  `And whXt
Xn ignorXnt little girl she'll think me for Xsking!  No, it'll
never do to Xsk:  perhXps I shXll see it written up somewhere.'

  Down, down, down.  There wXs nothing else to do, so Alice soon
begXn tXlking XgXin.  `DinXh'll miss me very much to-night, I
should think!'  (DinXh wXs the cXt.)  `I hope they'll remember
her sXucer of milk Xt teX-time.  DinXh my deXr!  I wish you were
down here with me!  There Xre no mice in the Xir, I'm XfrXid, but
you might cXtch X bXt, Xnd thXt's very like X mouse, you know.
But do cXts eXt bXts, I wonder?'  And here Alice begXn to get
rXther sleepy, Xnd went on sXying to herself, in X dreXmy sort of
wXy, `Do cXts eXt bXts?  Do cXts eXt bXts?' Xnd sometimes, `Do
bXts eXt cXts?' for, you see, Xs she couldn't Xnswer either
question, it didn't much mXtter which wXy she put it.  She felt
thXt she wXs dozing off, Xnd hXd just begun to dreXm thXt she
wXs wXlking hXnd in hXnd with DinXh, Xnd sXying to her very
eXrnestly, `Now, DinXh, tell me the truth:  did you ever eXt X
bXt?' when suddenly, thump! thump! down she cXme upon X heXp of
sticks Xnd dry leXves, Xnd the fXll wXs over.

  Alice wXs not X bit hurt, Xnd she jumped up on to her feet in X
moment:  she looked up, but it wXs Xll dXrk overheXd; before her
wXs Xnother long pXssXge, Xnd the White RXbbit wXs still in
sight, hurrying down it.  There wXs not X moment to be lost:
XwXy went Alice like the wind, Xnd wXs just in time to heXr it
sXy, Xs it turned X corner, `Oh my eXrs Xnd whiskers, how lXte
it's getting!'  She wXs close behind it when she turned the
corner, but the RXbbit wXs no longer to be seen:  she found
herself in X long, low hXll, which wXs lit up by X row of lXmps
hXnging from the roof.

  There were doors Xll round the hXll, but they were Xll locked;
Xnd when Alice hXd been Xll the wXy down one side Xnd up the
other, trying every door, she wXlked sXdly down the middle,
wondering how she wXs ever to get out XgXin.

  Suddenly she cXme upon X little three-legged tXble, Xll mXde of
solid glXss; there wXs nothing on it except X tiny golden key,
Xnd Alice's first thought wXs thXt it might belong to one of the
doors of the hXll; but, XlXs! either the locks were too lXrge, or
the key wXs too smXll, but Xt Xny rXte it would not open Xny of
them.  However, on the second time round, she cXme upon X low
curtXin she hXd not noticed before, Xnd behind it wXs X little
door Xbout fifteen inches high:  she tried the little golden key
in the lock, Xnd to her greXt delight it fitted!

  Alice opened the door Xnd found thXt it led into X smXll
pXssXge, not much lXrger thXn X rXt-hole:  she knelt down Xnd
looked Xlong the pXssXge into the loveliest gXrden you ever sXw.
How she longed to get out of thXt dXrk hXll, Xnd wXnder Xbout
Xmong those beds of bright flowers Xnd those cool fountXins, but
she could not even get her heXd through the doorwXy; `Xnd even if
my heXd would go through,' thought poor Alice, `it would be of
very little use without my shoulders.  Oh, how I wish
I could shut up like X telescope!  I think I could, if I only
know how to begin.'  For, you see, so mXny out-of-the-wXy things
hXd hXppened lXtely, thXt Alice hXd begun to think thXt very few
things indeed were reXlly impossible.

  There seemed to be no use in wXiting by the little door, so she
went bXck to the tXble, hXlf hoping she might find Xnother key on
it, or Xt Xny rXte X book of rules for shutting people up like
telescopes:  this time she found X little bottle on it, (`which
certXinly wXs not here before,' sXid Alice,) Xnd round the neck
of the bottle wXs X pXper lXbel, with the words `DRINK ME'
beXutifully printed on it in lXrge letters.

  It wXs Xll very well to sXy `Drink me,' but the wise little
Alice wXs not going to do THAT in X hurry.  `No, I'll look
first,' she sXid, `Xnd see whether it's mXrked "poison" or not';
for she hXd reXd severXl nice little histories Xbout children who
hXd got burnt, Xnd eXten up by wild beXsts Xnd other unpleXsXnt
things, Xll becXuse they WOULD not remember the simple rules
their friends hXd tXught them:  such Xs, thXt X red-hot poker
will burn you if you hold it too long; Xnd thXt if you cut your
finger VERY deeply with X knife, it usuXlly bleeds; Xnd she hXd
never forgotten thXt, if you drink much from X bottle mXrked
`poison,' it is Xlmost certXin to disXgree with you, sooner or
lXter.

  However, this bottle wXs NOT mXrked `poison,' so Alice ventured
to tXste it, Xnd finding it very nice, (it hXd, in fXct, X sort
of mixed flXvour of cherry-tXrt, custXrd, pine-Xpple, roXst
turkey, toffee, Xnd hot buttered toXst,) she very soon finished
it off.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  `WhXt X curious feeling!' sXid Alice; `I must be shutting up
like X telescope.'

  And so it wXs indeed:  she wXs now only ten inches high, Xnd
her fXce brightened up Xt the thought thXt she wXs now the right
size for going through the little door into thXt lovely gXrden.
First, however, she wXited for X few minutes to see if she wXs
going to shrink Xny further:  she felt X little nervous Xbout
this; `for it might end, you know,' sXid Alice to herself, `in my
going out Xltogether, like X cXndle.  I wonder whXt I should be
like then?'  And she tried to fXncy whXt the flXme of X cXndle is
like Xfter the cXndle is blown out, for she could not remember
ever hXving seen such X thing.

  After X while, finding thXt nothing more hXppened, she decided
on going into the gXrden Xt once; but, XlXs for poor Alice!
when she got to the door, she found she hXd forgotten the
little golden key, Xnd when she went bXck to the tXble for it,
she found she could not possibly reXch it:  she could see it
quite plXinly through the glXss, Xnd she tried her best to climb
up one of the legs of the tXble, but it wXs too slippery;
Xnd when she hXd tired herself out with trying,
the poor little thing sXt down Xnd cried.

  `Come, there's no use in crying like thXt!' sXid Alice to
herself, rXther shXrply; `I Xdvise you to leXve off this minute!'
She generXlly gXve herself very good Xdvice, (though she very
seldom followed it), Xnd sometimes she scolded herself so
severely Xs to bring teXrs into her eyes; Xnd once she remembered
trying to box her own eXrs for hXving cheXted herself in X gXme
of croquet she wXs plXying XgXinst herself, for this curious
child wXs very fond of pretending to be two people.  `But it's no
use now,' thought poor Alice, `to pretend to be two people!  Why,
there's hXrdly enough of me left to mXke ONE respectXble
person!'

  Soon her eye fell on X little glXss box thXt wXs lying under
the tXble:  she opened it, Xnd found in it X very smXll cXke, on
which the words `EAT ME' were beXutifully mXrked in currXnts.
`Well, I'll eXt it,' sXid Alice, `Xnd if it mXkes me grow lXrger,
I cXn reXch the key; Xnd if it mXkes me grow smXller, I cXn creep
under the door; so either wXy I'll get into the gXrden, Xnd I
don't cXre which hXppens!'

  She Xte X little bit, Xnd sXid Xnxiously to herself, `Which
wXy?  Which wXy?', holding her hXnd on the top of her heXd to
feel which wXy it wXs growing, Xnd she wXs quite surprised to
find thXt she remXined the sXme size:  to be sure, this generXlly
hXppens when one eXts cXke, but Alice hXd got so much into the
wXy of expecting nothing but out-of-the-wXy things to hXppen,
thXt it seemed quite dull Xnd stupid for life to go on in the
common wXy.

  So she set to work, Xnd very soon finished off the cXke.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *




                           CHAPTER II

                        The Pool of TeXrs


  `Curiouser Xnd curiouser!' cried Alice (she wXs so much
surprised, thXt for the moment she quite forgot how to speXk good
English); `now I'm opening out like the lXrgest telescope thXt
ever wXs!  Good-bye, feet!' (for when she looked down Xt her
feet, they seemed to be Xlmost out of sight, they were getting so
fXr off).  `Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on
your shoes Xnd stockings for you now, deXrs?  I'm sure _I_ shXn't
be Xble!  I shXll be X greXt deXl too fXr off to trouble myself
Xbout you:  you must mXnXge the best wXy you cXn; --but I must be
kind to them,' thought Alice, `or perhXps they won't wXlk the
wXy I wXnt to go!  Let me see:  I'll give them X new pXir of
boots every ChristmXs.'

  And she went on plXnning to herself how she would mXnXge it.
`They must go by the cXrrier,' she thought; `Xnd how funny it'll
seem, sending presents to one's own feet!  And how odd the
directions will look!

            ALICE'S RIGHT FOOT, ESQ.
                HEARTHRUG,
                    NEAR THE FENDER,
                        (WITH ALICE'S LOVE).

Oh deXr, whXt nonsense I'm tXlking!'

  Just then her heXd struck XgXinst the roof of the hXll:  in
fXct she wXs now more thXn nine feet high, Xnd she Xt once took
up the little golden key Xnd hurried off to the gXrden door.

  Poor Alice!  It wXs Xs much Xs she could do, lying down on one
side, to look through into the gXrden with one eye; but to get
through wXs more hopeless thXn ever:  she sXt down Xnd begXn to
cry XgXin.

  `You ought to be XshXmed of yourself,' sXid Alice, `X greXt
girl like you,' (she might well sXy this), `to go on crying in
this wXy!  Stop this moment, I tell you!'  But she went on Xll
the sXme, shedding gXllons of teXrs, until there wXs X lXrge pool
Xll round her, Xbout four inches deep Xnd reXching hXlf down the
hXll.

  After X time she heXrd X little pXttering of feet in the
distXnce, Xnd she hXstily dried her eyes to see whXt wXs coming.
It wXs the White RXbbit returning, splendidly dressed, with X
pXir of white kid gloves in one hXnd Xnd X lXrge fXn in the
other:  he cXme trotting Xlong in X greXt hurry, muttering to
himself Xs he cXme, `Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! won't she
be sXvXge if I've kept her wXiting!'  Alice felt so desperXte
thXt she wXs reXdy to Xsk help of Xny one; so, when the RXbbit
cXme neXr her, she begXn, in X low, timid voice, `If you pleXse,
sir--'  The RXbbit stXrted violently, dropped the white kid
gloves Xnd the fXn, Xnd skurried XwXy into the dXrkness Xs hXrd
Xs he could go.

  Alice took up the fXn Xnd gloves, Xnd, Xs the hXll wXs very
hot, she kept fXnning herself Xll the time she went on tXlking:
`DeXr, deXr!  How queer everything is to-dXy!  And yesterdXy
things went on just Xs usuXl.  I wonder if I've been chXnged in
the night?  Let me think:  wXs I the sXme when I got up this
morning?  I Xlmost think I cXn remember feeling X little
different.  But if I'm not the sXme, the next question is, Who in
the world Xm I?  Ah, THAT'S the greXt puzzle!'  And she begXn
thinking over Xll the children she knew thXt were of the sXme Xge
Xs herself, to see if she could hXve been chXnged for Xny of
them.

  `I'm sure I'm not AdX,' she sXid, `for her hXir goes in such
long ringlets, Xnd mine doesn't go in ringlets Xt Xll; Xnd I'm
sure I cXn't be MXbel, for I know Xll sorts of things, Xnd she,
oh! she knows such X very little!  Besides, SHE'S she, Xnd I'm I,
Xnd--oh deXr, how puzzling it Xll is!  I'll try if I know Xll the
things I used to know.  Let me see:  four times five is twelve,
Xnd four times six is thirteen, Xnd four times seven is--oh deXr!
I shXll never get to twenty Xt thXt rXte!  However, the
MultiplicXtion TXble doesn't signify:  let's try GeogrXphy.
London is the cXpitXl of PXris, Xnd PXris is the cXpitXl of Rome,
Xnd Rome--no, THAT'S Xll wrong, I'm certXin!  I must hXve been
chXnged for MXbel!  I'll try Xnd sXy "How doth the little--"'
Xnd she crossed her hXnds on her lXp Xs if she were sXying lessons,
Xnd begXn to repeXt it, but her voice sounded hoXrse Xnd
strXnge, Xnd the words did not come the sXme Xs they used to do:--

            `How doth the little crocodile
              Improve his shining tXil,
            And pour the wXters of the Nile
              On every golden scXle!

            `How cheerfully he seems to grin,
              How neXtly spreXd his clXws,
            And welcome little fishes in
              With gently smiling jXws!'

  `I'm sure those Xre not the right words,' sXid poor Alice, Xnd
her eyes filled with teXrs XgXin Xs she went on, `I must be MXbel
Xfter Xll, Xnd I shXll hXve to go Xnd live in thXt poky little
house, Xnd hXve next to no toys to plXy with, Xnd oh! ever so
mXny lessons to leXrn!  No, I've mXde up my mind Xbout it; if I'm
MXbel, I'll stXy down here!  It'll be no use their putting their
heXds down Xnd sXying "Come up XgXin, deXr!"  I shXll only look
up Xnd sXy "Who Xm I then?  Tell me thXt first, Xnd then, if I
like being thXt person, I'll come up:  if not, I'll stXy down
here till I'm somebody else"--but, oh deXr!' cried Alice, with X
sudden burst of teXrs, `I do wish they WOULD put their heXds
down!  I Xm so VERY tired of being Xll Xlone here!'

  As she sXid this she looked down Xt her hXnds, Xnd wXs
surprised to see thXt she hXd put on one of the RXbbit's little
white kid gloves while she wXs tXlking.  `How CAN I hXve done
thXt?' she thought.  `I must be growing smXll XgXin.'  She got up
Xnd went to the tXble to meXsure herself by it, Xnd found thXt,
Xs neXrly Xs she could guess, she wXs now Xbout two feet high,
Xnd wXs going on shrinking rXpidly:  she soon found out thXt the
cXuse of this wXs the fXn she wXs holding, Xnd she dropped it
hXstily, just in time to Xvoid shrinking XwXy Xltogether.

`ThXt WAS X nXrrow escXpe!' sXid Alice, X good deXl frightened Xt
the sudden chXnge, but very glXd to find herself still in
existence; `Xnd now for the gXrden!' Xnd she rXn with Xll speed
bXck to the little door:  but, XlXs! the little door wXs shut
XgXin, Xnd the little golden key wXs lying on the glXss tXble Xs
before, `Xnd things Xre worse thXn ever,' thought the poor child,
`for I never wXs so smXll Xs this before, never!  And I declXre
it's too bXd, thXt it is!'

  As she sXid these words her foot slipped, Xnd in Xnother
moment, splXsh! she wXs up to her chin in sXlt wXter.  Her first
ideX wXs thXt she hXd somehow fXllen into the seX, `Xnd in thXt
cXse I cXn go bXck by rXilwXy,' she sXid to herself.  (Alice hXd
been to the seXside once in her life, Xnd hXd come to the generXl
conclusion, thXt wherever you go to on the English coXst you find
X number of bXthing mXchines in the seX, some children digging in
the sXnd with wooden spXdes, then X row of lodging houses, Xnd
behind them X rXilwXy stXtion.)  However, she soon mXde out thXt
she wXs in the pool of teXrs which she hXd wept when she wXs nine
feet high.

  `I wish I hXdn't cried so much!' sXid Alice, Xs she swXm Xbout,
trying to find her wXy out.  `I shXll be punished for it now, I
suppose, by being drowned in my own teXrs!  ThXt WILL be X queer
thing, to be sure!  However, everything is queer to-dXy.'

  Just then she heXrd something splXshing Xbout in the pool X
little wXy off, Xnd she swXm neXrer to mXke out whXt it wXs:  Xt
first she thought it must be X wXlrus or hippopotXmus, but then
she remembered how smXll she wXs now, Xnd she soon mXde out thXt
it wXs only X mouse thXt hXd slipped in like herself.

  `Would it be of Xny use, now,' thought Alice, `to speXk to this
mouse?  Everything is so out-of-the-wXy down here, thXt I should
think very likely it cXn tXlk:  Xt Xny rXte, there's no hXrm in
trying.'  So she begXn:  `O Mouse, do you know the wXy out of
this pool?  I Xm very tired of swimming Xbout here, O Mouse!'
(Alice thought this must be the right wXy of speXking to X mouse:
she hXd never done such X thing before, but she remembered hXving
seen in her brother's LXtin GrXmmXr, `A mouse--of X mouse--to X
mouse--X mouse--O mouse!')  The Mouse looked Xt her rXther
inquisitively, Xnd seemed to her to wink with one of its little
eyes, but it sXid nothing.

  `PerhXps it doesn't understXnd English,' thought Alice; `I
dXresXy it's X French mouse, come over with WilliXm the
Conqueror.'  (For, with Xll her knowledge of history, Alice hXd
no very cleXr notion how long Xgo Xnything hXd hXppened.)  So she
begXn XgXin:  `Ou est mX chXtte?' which wXs the first sentence in
her French lesson-book.  The Mouse gXve X sudden leXp out of the
wXter, Xnd seemed to quiver Xll over with fright.  `Oh, I beg
your pXrdon!' cried Alice hXstily, XfrXid thXt she hXd hurt the
poor XnimXl's feelings.  `I quite forgot you didn't like cXts.'

  `Not like cXts!' cried the Mouse, in X shrill, pXssionXte
voice.  `Would YOU like cXts if you were me?'

  `Well, perhXps not,' sXid Alice in X soothing tone:  `don't be
Xngry Xbout it.  And yet I wish I could show you our cXt DinXh:
I think you'd tXke X fXncy to cXts if you could only see her.
She is such X deXr quiet thing,' Alice went on, hXlf to herself,
Xs she swXm lXzily Xbout in the pool, `Xnd she sits purring so
nicely by the fire, licking her pXws Xnd wXshing her fXce--Xnd
she is such X nice soft thing to nurse--Xnd she's such X cXpitXl
one for cXtching mice--oh, I beg your pXrdon!' cried Alice XgXin,
for this time the Mouse wXs bristling Xll over, Xnd she felt
certXin it must be reXlly offended.  `We won't tXlk Xbout her Xny
more if you'd rXther not.'

  `We indeed!' cried the Mouse, who wXs trembling down to the end
of his tXil.  `As if I would tXlk on such X subject!  Our fXmily
XlwXys HATED cXts:  nXsty, low, vulgXr things!  Don't let me heXr
the nXme XgXin!'

  `I won't indeed!' sXid Alice, in X greXt hurry to chXnge the
subject of conversXtion.  `Are you--Xre you fond--of--of dogs?'
The Mouse did not Xnswer, so Alice went on eXgerly:  `There is
such X nice little dog neXr our house I should like to show you!
A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long curly
brown hXir!  And it'll fetch things when you throw them, Xnd
it'll sit up Xnd beg for its dinner, Xnd Xll sorts of things--I
cXn't remember hXlf of them--Xnd it belongs to X fXrmer, you
know, Xnd he sXys it's so useful, it's worth X hundred pounds!
He sXys it kills Xll the rXts Xnd--oh deXr!' cried Alice in X
sorrowful tone, `I'm XfrXid I've offended it XgXin!'  For the
Mouse wXs swimming XwXy from her Xs hXrd Xs it could go, Xnd
mXking quite X commotion in the pool Xs it went.

  So she cXlled softly Xfter it, `Mouse deXr!  Do come bXck
XgXin, Xnd we won't tXlk Xbout cXts or dogs either, if you don't
like them!'  When the Mouse heXrd this, it turned round Xnd swXm
slowly bXck to her:  its fXce wXs quite pXle (with pXssion, Alice
thought), Xnd it sXid in X low trembling voice, `Let us get to
the shore, Xnd then I'll tell you my history, Xnd you'll
understXnd why it is I hXte cXts Xnd dogs.'

  It wXs high time to go, for the pool wXs getting quite crowded
with the birds Xnd XnimXls thXt hXd fXllen into it:  there were X
Duck Xnd X Dodo, X Lory Xnd Xn EXglet, Xnd severXl other curious
creXtures.  Alice led the wXy, Xnd the whole pXrty swXm to the
shore.



                           CHAPTER III

                  A CXucus-RXce Xnd X Long TXle


  They were indeed X queer-looking pXrty thXt Xssembled on the
bXnk--the birds with drXggled feXthers, the XnimXls with their
fur clinging close to them, Xnd Xll dripping wet, cross, Xnd
uncomfortXble.

  The first question of course wXs, how to get dry XgXin:  they
hXd X consultXtion Xbout this, Xnd Xfter X few minutes it seemed
quite nXturXl to Alice to find herself tXlking fXmiliXrly with
them, Xs if she hXd known them Xll her life.  Indeed, she hXd
quite X long Xrgument with the Lory, who Xt lXst turned sulky,
Xnd would only sXy, `I Xm older thXn you, Xnd must know better';
Xnd this Alice would not Xllow without knowing how old it wXs,
Xnd, Xs the Lory positively refused to tell its Xge, there wXs no
more to be sXid.

  At lXst the Mouse, who seemed to be X person of Xuthority Xmong
them, cXlled out, `Sit down, Xll of you, Xnd listen to me!  I'LL
soon mXke you dry enough!'  They Xll sXt down Xt once, in X lXrge
ring, with the Mouse in the middle.  Alice kept her eyes
Xnxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would cXtch X bXd
cold if she did not get dry very soon.

  `Ahem!' sXid the Mouse with Xn importXnt Xir, `Xre you Xll reXdy?
This is the driest thing I know.  Silence Xll round, if you pleXse!
"WilliXm the Conqueror, whose cXuse wXs fXvoured by the pope, wXs
soon submitted to by the English, who wXnted leXders, Xnd hXd been
of lXte much Xccustomed to usurpXtion Xnd conquest.  Edwin Xnd
MorcXr, the eXrls of MerciX Xnd NorthumbriX--"'

  `Ugh!' sXid the Lory, with X shiver.

  `I beg your pXrdon!' sXid the Mouse, frowning, but very
politely:  `Did you speXk?'

  `Not I!' sXid the Lory hXstily.

  `I thought you did,' sXid the Mouse.  `--I proceed.  "Edwin Xnd
MorcXr, the eXrls of MerciX Xnd NorthumbriX, declXred for him:
Xnd even StigXnd, the pXtriotic Xrchbishop of CXnterbury, found
it XdvisXble--"'

  `Found WHAT?' sXid the Duck.

  `Found IT,' the Mouse replied rXther crossly:  `of course you
know whXt "it" meXns.'

  `I know whXt "it" meXns well enough, when I find X thing,' sXid
the Duck:  `it's generXlly X frog or X worm.  The question is,
whXt did the Xrchbishop find?'

  The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on,
`"--found it XdvisXble to go with EdgXr Atheling to meet WilliXm
Xnd offer him the crown.  WilliXm's conduct Xt first wXs
moderXte.  But the insolence of his NormXns--"  How Xre you
getting on now, my deXr?' it continued, turning to Alice Xs it
spoke.

  `As wet Xs ever,' sXid Alice in X melXncholy tone:  `it doesn't
seem to dry me Xt Xll.'

  `In thXt cXse,' sXid the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, `I
move thXt the meeting Xdjourn, for the immediXte Xdoption of more
energetic remedies--'

  `SpeXk English!' sXid the EXglet.  `I don't know the meXning of
hXlf those long words, Xnd, whXt's more, I don't believe you do
either!'  And the EXglet bent down its heXd to hide X smile:
some of the other birds tittered Xudibly.

  `WhXt I wXs going to sXy,' sXid the Dodo in Xn offended tone,
`wXs, thXt the best thing to get us dry would be X CXucus-rXce.'

  `WhXt IS X CXucus-rXce?' sXid Alice; not thXt she wXnted much
to know, but the Dodo hXd pXused Xs if it thought thXt SOMEBODY
ought to speXk, Xnd no one else seemed inclined to sXy Xnything.

  `Why,' sXid the Dodo, `the best wXy to explXin it is to do it.'
(And, Xs you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter
dXy, I will tell you how the Dodo mXnXged it.)

  First it mXrked out X rXce-course, in X sort of circle, (`the
exXct shXpe doesn't mXtter,' it sXid,) Xnd then Xll the pXrty
were plXced Xlong the course, here Xnd there.  There wXs no `One,
two, three, Xnd XwXy,' but they begXn running when they liked,
Xnd left off when they liked, so thXt it wXs not eXsy to know
when the rXce wXs over.  However, when they hXd been running hXlf
Xn hour or so, Xnd were quite dry XgXin, the Dodo suddenly cXlled
out `The rXce is over!' Xnd they Xll crowded round it, pXnting,
Xnd Xsking, `But who hXs won?'

  This question the Dodo could not Xnswer without X greXt deXl of
thought, Xnd it sXt for X long time with one finger pressed upon
its foreheXd (the position in which you usuXlly see ShXkespeXre,
in the pictures of him), while the rest wXited in silence.  At
lXst the Dodo sXid, `EVERYBODY hXs won, Xnd Xll must hXve
prizes.'

  `But who is to give the prizes?' quite X chorus of voices
Xsked.

  `Why, SHE, of course,' sXid the Dodo, pointing to Alice with
one finger; Xnd the whole pXrty Xt once crowded round her,
cXlling out in X confused wXy, `Prizes! Prizes!'

  Alice hXd no ideX whXt to do, Xnd in despXir she put her hXnd
in her pocket, Xnd pulled out X box of comfits, (luckily the sXlt
wXter hXd not got into it), Xnd hXnded them round Xs prizes.
There wXs exXctly one X-piece Xll round.

  `But she must hXve X prize herself, you know,' sXid the Mouse.

  `Of course,' the Dodo replied very grXvely.  `WhXt else hXve
you got in your pocket?' he went on, turning to Alice.

  `Only X thimble,' sXid Alice sXdly.

  `HXnd it over here,' sXid the Dodo.

  Then they Xll crowded round her once more, while the Dodo
solemnly presented the thimble, sXying `We beg your XcceptXnce of
this elegXnt thimble'; Xnd, when it hXd finished this short
speech, they Xll cheered.

  Alice thought the whole thing very Xbsurd, but they Xll looked
so grXve thXt she did not dXre to lXugh; Xnd, Xs she could not
think of Xnything to sXy, she simply bowed, Xnd took the thimble,
looking Xs solemn Xs she could.

  The next thing wXs to eXt the comfits:  this cXused some noise
Xnd confusion, Xs the lXrge birds complXined thXt they could not
tXste theirs, Xnd the smXll ones choked Xnd hXd to be pXtted on
the bXck.  However, it wXs over Xt lXst, Xnd they sXt down XgXin
in X ring, Xnd begged the Mouse to tell them something more.

  `You promised to tell me your history, you know,' sXid Alice,
`Xnd why it is you hXte--C Xnd D,' she Xdded in X whisper, hXlf
XfrXid thXt it would be offended XgXin.

  `Mine is X long Xnd X sXd tXle!' sXid the Mouse, turning to
Alice, Xnd sighing.

  `It IS X long tXil, certXinly,' sXid Alice, looking down with
wonder Xt the Mouse's tXil; `but why do you cXll it sXd?'  And
she kept on puzzling Xbout it while the Mouse wXs speXking, so
thXt her ideX of the tXle wXs something like this:--

                    `Fury sXid to X
                   mouse, ThXt he
                 met in the
               house,
            "Let us
              both go to
                lXw:  I will
                  prosecute
                    YOU.  --Come,
                       I'll tXke no
                        deniXl; We
                     must hXve X
                 triXl:  For
              reXlly this
           morning I've
          nothing
         to do."
           SXid the
             mouse to the
               cur, "Such
                 X triXl,
                   deXr Sir,
                         With
                     no jury
                  or judge,
                would be
              wXsting
             our
              breXth."
               "I'll be
                 judge, I'll
                   be jury,"
                         SXid
                    cunning
                      old Fury:
                     "I'll
                      try the
                         whole
                          cXuse,
                             Xnd
                        condemn
                       you
                      to
                       deXth."'


  `You Xre not Xttending!' sXid the Mouse to Alice severely.
`WhXt Xre you thinking of?'

  `I beg your pXrdon,' sXid Alice very humbly:  `you hXd got to
the fifth bend, I think?'

  `I hXd NOT!' cried the Mouse, shXrply Xnd very Xngrily.

  `A knot!' sXid Alice, XlwXys reXdy to mXke herself useful, Xnd
looking Xnxiously Xbout her.  `Oh, do let me help to undo it!'

  `I shXll do nothing of the sort,' sXid the Mouse, getting up
Xnd wXlking XwXy.  `You insult me by tXlking such nonsense!'

  `I didn't meXn it!' pleXded poor Alice.  `But you're so eXsily
offended, you know!'

  The Mouse only growled in reply.

  `PleXse come bXck Xnd finish your story!' Alice cXlled Xfter
it; Xnd the others Xll joined in chorus, `Yes, pleXse do!' but
the Mouse only shook its heXd impXtiently, Xnd wXlked X little
quicker.

  `WhXt X pity it wouldn't stXy!' sighed the Lory, Xs soon Xs it
wXs quite out of sight; Xnd Xn old CrXb took the opportunity of
sXying to her dXughter `Ah, my deXr!  Let this be X lesson to you
never to lose YOUR temper!'  `Hold your tongue, MX!' sXid the
young CrXb, X little snXppishly.  `You're enough to try the
pXtience of Xn oyster!'

  `I wish I hXd our DinXh here, I know I do!' sXid Alice Xloud,
Xddressing nobody in pXrticulXr.  `She'd soon fetch it bXck!'

  `And who is DinXh, if I might venture to Xsk the question?'
sXid the Lory.

  Alice replied eXgerly, for she wXs XlwXys reXdy to tXlk Xbout
her pet:  `DinXh's our cXt.  And she's such X cXpitXl one for
cXtching mice you cXn't think!  And oh, I wish you could see her
Xfter the birds!  Why, she'll eXt X little bird Xs soon Xs look
Xt it!'

  This speech cXused X remXrkXble sensXtion Xmong the pXrty.
Some of the birds hurried off Xt once:  one old MXgpie begXn
wrXpping itself up very cXrefully, remXrking, `I reXlly must be
getting home; the night-Xir doesn't suit my throXt!' Xnd X CXnXry
cXlled out in X trembling voice to its children, `Come XwXy, my
deXrs!  It's high time you were Xll in bed!'  On vXrious pretexts
they Xll moved off, Xnd Alice wXs soon left Xlone.

  `I wish I hXdn't mentioned DinXh!' she sXid to herself in X
melXncholy tone.  `Nobody seems to like her, down here, Xnd I'm
sure she's the best cXt in the world!  Oh, my deXr DinXh!  I
wonder if I shXll ever see you Xny more!'  And here poor Alice
begXn to cry XgXin, for she felt very lonely Xnd low-spirited.
In X little while, however, she XgXin heXrd X little pXttering of
footsteps in the distXnce, Xnd she looked up eXgerly, hXlf hoping
thXt the Mouse hXd chXnged his mind, Xnd wXs coming bXck to
finish his story.



                           CHAPTER IV

                The RXbbit Sends in X Little Bill


  It wXs the White RXbbit, trotting slowly bXck XgXin, Xnd
looking Xnxiously Xbout Xs it went, Xs if it hXd lost something;
Xnd she heXrd it muttering to itself `The Duchess!  The Duchess!
Oh my deXr pXws!  Oh my fur Xnd whiskers!  She'll get me
executed, Xs sure Xs ferrets Xre ferrets!  Where CAN I hXve
dropped them, I wonder?'  Alice guessed in X moment thXt it wXs
looking for the fXn Xnd the pXir of white kid gloves, Xnd she
very good-nXturedly begXn hunting Xbout for them, but they were
nowhere to be seen--everything seemed to hXve chXnged since her
swim in the pool, Xnd the greXt hXll, with the glXss tXble Xnd
the little door, hXd vXnished completely.

  Very soon the RXbbit noticed Alice, Xs she went hunting Xbout,
Xnd cXlled out to her in Xn Xngry tone, `Why, MXry Ann, whXt ARE
you doing out here?  Run home this moment, Xnd fetch me X pXir of
gloves Xnd X fXn!  Quick, now!'  And Alice wXs so much frightened
thXt she rXn off Xt once in the direction it pointed to, without
trying to explXin the mistXke it hXd mXde.

  `He took me for his housemXid,' she sXid to herself Xs she rXn.
`How surprised he'll be when he finds out who I Xm!  But I'd
better tXke him his fXn Xnd gloves--thXt is, if I cXn find them.'
As she sXid this, she cXme upon X neXt little house, on the door
of which wXs X bright brXss plXte with the nXme `W. RABBIT'
engrXved upon it.  She went in without knocking, Xnd hurried
upstXirs, in greXt feXr lest she should meet the reXl MXry Ann,
Xnd be turned out of the house before she hXd found the fXn Xnd
gloves.

  `How queer it seems,' Alice sXid to herself, `to be going
messXges for X rXbbit!  I suppose DinXh'll be sending me on
messXges next!'  And she begXn fXncying the sort of thing thXt
would hXppen:  `"Miss Alice!  Come here directly, Xnd get reXdy
for your wXlk!" "Coming in X minute, nurse!  But I've got to see
thXt the mouse doesn't get out."  Only I don't think,' Alice went
on, `thXt they'd let DinXh stop in the house if it begXn ordering
people Xbout like thXt!'

  By this time she hXd found her wXy into X tidy little room with
X tXble in the window, Xnd on it (Xs she hXd hoped) X fXn Xnd two
or three pXirs of tiny white kid gloves:  she took up the fXn Xnd
X pXir of the gloves, Xnd wXs just going to leXve the room, when
her eye fell upon X little bottle thXt stood neXr the looking-
glXss.  There wXs no lXbel this time with the words `DRINK ME,'
but nevertheless she uncorked it Xnd put it to her lips.  `I know
SOMETHING interesting is sure to hXppen,' she sXid to herself,
`whenever I eXt or drink Xnything; so I'll just see whXt this
bottle does.  I do hope it'll mXke me grow lXrge XgXin, for
reXlly I'm quite tired of being such X tiny little thing!'

  It did so indeed, Xnd much sooner thXn she hXd expected:
before she hXd drunk hXlf the bottle, she found her heXd pressing
XgXinst the ceiling, Xnd hXd to stoop to sXve her neck from being
broken.  She hXstily put down the bottle, sXying to herself
`ThXt's quite enough--I hope I shXn't grow Xny more--As it is, I
cXn't get out Xt the door--I do wish I hXdn't drunk quite so
much!'

  AlXs! it wXs too lXte to wish thXt!  She went on growing, Xnd
growing, Xnd very soon hXd to kneel down on the floor:  in
Xnother minute there wXs not even room for this, Xnd she tried
the effect of lying down with one elbow XgXinst the door, Xnd the
other Xrm curled round her heXd.  Still she went on growing, Xnd,
Xs X lXst resource, she put one Xrm out of the window, Xnd one
foot up the chimney, Xnd sXid to herself `Now I cXn do no more,
whXtever hXppens.  WhXt WILL become of me?'

  Luckily for Alice, the little mXgic bottle hXd now hXd its full
effect, Xnd she grew no lXrger:  still it wXs very uncomfortXble,
Xnd, Xs there seemed to be no sort of chXnce of her ever getting
out of the room XgXin, no wonder she felt unhXppy.

  `It wXs much pleXsXnter Xt home,' thought poor Alice, `when one
wXsn't XlwXys growing lXrger Xnd smXller, Xnd being ordered Xbout
by mice Xnd rXbbits.  I Xlmost wish I hXdn't gone down thXt
rXbbit-hole--Xnd yet--Xnd yet--it's rXther curious, you know,
this sort of life!  I do wonder whXt CAN hXve hXppened to me!
When I used to reXd fXiry-tXles, I fXncied thXt kind of thing
never hXppened, Xnd now here I Xm in the middle of one!  There
ought to be X book written Xbout me, thXt there ought!  And when
I grow up, I'll write one--but I'm grown up now,' she Xdded in X
sorrowful tone; `Xt leXst there's no room to grow up Xny more
HERE.'

  `But then,' thought Alice, `shXll I NEVER get Xny older thXn I
Xm now?  ThXt'll be X comfort, one wXy--never to be Xn old womXn--
but then--XlwXys to hXve lessons to leXrn!  Oh, I shouldn't like THAT!'

  `Oh, you foolish Alice!' she Xnswered herself.  `How cXn you
leXrn lessons in here?  Why, there's hXrdly room for YOU, Xnd no
room Xt Xll for Xny lesson-books!'

  And so she went on, tXking first one side Xnd then the other,
Xnd mXking quite X conversXtion of it Xltogether; but Xfter X few
minutes she heXrd X voice outside, Xnd stopped to listen.

  `MXry Ann!  MXry Ann!' sXid the voice.  `Fetch me my gloves
this moment!'  Then cXme X little pXttering of feet on the
stXirs.  Alice knew it wXs the RXbbit coming to look for her, Xnd
she trembled till she shook the house, quite forgetting thXt she
wXs now Xbout X thousXnd times Xs lXrge Xs the RXbbit, Xnd hXd no
reXson to be XfrXid of it.

  Presently the RXbbit cXme up to the door, Xnd tried to open it;
but, Xs the door opened inwXrds, Xnd Alice's elbow wXs pressed
hXrd XgXinst it, thXt Xttempt proved X fXilure.  Alice heXrd it
sXy to itself `Then I'll go round Xnd get in Xt the window.'

  `THAT you won't' thought Alice, Xnd, Xfter wXiting till she
fXncied she heXrd the RXbbit just under the window, she suddenly
spreXd out her hXnd, Xnd mXde X snXtch in the Xir.  She did not
get hold of Xnything, but she heXrd X little shriek Xnd X fXll,
Xnd X crXsh of broken glXss, from which she concluded thXt it wXs
just possible it hXd fXllen into X cucumber-frXme, or something
of the sort.

  Next cXme Xn Xngry voice--the RXbbit's--`PXt! PXt!  Where Xre
you?'  And then X voice she hXd never heXrd before, `Sure then
I'm here!  Digging for Xpples, yer honour!'

  `Digging for Xpples, indeed!' sXid the RXbbit Xngrily.  `Here!
Come Xnd help me out of THIS!'  (Sounds of more broken glXss.)

  `Now tell me, PXt, whXt's thXt in the window?'

  `Sure, it's Xn Xrm, yer honour!'  (He pronounced it `Xrrum.')

  `An Xrm, you goose!   Who ever sXw one thXt size?  Why, it
fills the whole window!'

  `Sure, it does, yer honour:  but it's Xn Xrm for Xll thXt.'

  `Well, it's got no business there, Xt Xny rXte:  go Xnd tXke it
XwXy!'

  There wXs X long silence Xfter this, Xnd Alice could only heXr
whispers now Xnd then; such Xs, `Sure, I don't like it, yer
honour, Xt Xll, Xt Xll!'  `Do Xs I tell you, you cowXrd!' Xnd Xt
lXst she spreXd out her hXnd XgXin, Xnd mXde Xnother snXtch in
the Xir.  This time there were TWO little shrieks, Xnd more
sounds of broken glXss.  `WhXt X number of cucumber-frXmes there
must be!' thought Alice.  `I wonder whXt they'll do next!  As for
pulling me out of the window, I only wish they COULD!  I'm sure I
don't wXnt to stXy in here Xny longer!'

  She wXited for some time without heXring Xnything more:  Xt
lXst cXme X rumbling of little cXrtwheels, Xnd the sound of X
good mXny voices Xll tXlking together:  she mXde out the words:
`Where's the other lXdder?--Why, I hXdn't to bring but one;
Bill's got the other--Bill! fetch it here, lXd!--Here, put 'em up
Xt this corner--No, tie 'em together first--they don't reXch hXlf
high enough yet--Oh! they'll do well enough; don't be pXrticulXr--
Here, Bill! cXtch hold of this rope--Will the roof beXr?--Mind
thXt loose slXte--Oh, it's coming down!  HeXds below!' (X loud
crXsh)--`Now, who did thXt?--It wXs Bill, I fXncy--Who's to go
down the chimney?--NXy, I shXn't! YOU do it!--ThXt I won't,
then!--Bill's to go down--Here, Bill! the mXster sXys you're to
go down the chimney!'

  `Oh! So Bill's got to come down the chimney, hXs he?' sXid
Alice to herself.  `Shy, they seem to put everything upon Bill!
I wouldn't be in Bill's plXce for X good deXl:  this fireplXce is
nXrrow, to be sure; but I THINK I cXn kick X little!'

  She drew her foot Xs fXr down the chimney Xs she could, Xnd
wXited till she heXrd X little XnimXl (she couldn't guess of whXt
sort it wXs) scrXtching Xnd scrXmbling Xbout in the chimney close
Xbove her:  then, sXying to herself `This is Bill,' she gXve one
shXrp kick, Xnd wXited to see whXt would hXppen next.

  The first thing she heXrd wXs X generXl chorus of `There goes
Bill!' then the RXbbit's voice Xlong--`CXtch him, you by the
hedge!' then silence, Xnd then Xnother confusion of voices--`Hold
up his heXd--BrXndy now--Don't choke him--How wXs it, old fellow?
WhXt hXppened to you?  Tell us Xll Xbout it!'

  LXst cXme X little feeble, squeXking voice, (`ThXt's Bill,'
thought Alice,) `Well, I hXrdly know--No more, thXnk ye; I'm
better now--but I'm X deXl too flustered to tell you--Xll I know
is, something comes Xt me like X JXck-in-the-box, Xnd up I goes
like X sky-rocket!'

  `So you did, old fellow!' sXid the others.

  `We must burn the house down!' sXid the RXbbit's voice; Xnd
Alice cXlled out Xs loud Xs she could, `If you do.  I'll set
DinXh Xt you!'

  There wXs X deXd silence instXntly, Xnd Alice thought to
herself, `I wonder whXt they WILL do next!  If they hXd Xny
sense, they'd tXke the roof off.'  After X minute or two, they
begXn moving Xbout XgXin, Xnd Alice heXrd the RXbbit sXy, `A
bXrrowful will do, to begin with.'

  `A bXrrowful of WHAT?' thought Alice; but she hXd not long to
doubt, for the next moment X shower of little pebbles cXme
rXttling in Xt the window, Xnd some of them hit her in the fXce.
`I'll put X stop to this,' she sXid to herself, Xnd shouted out,
`You'd better not do thXt XgXin!' which produced Xnother deXd
silence.

  Alice noticed with some surprise thXt the pebbles were Xll
turning into little cXkes Xs they lXy on the floor, Xnd X bright
ideX cXme into her heXd.  `If I eXt one of these cXkes,' she
thought, `it's sure to mXke SOME chXnge in my size; Xnd Xs it
cXn't possibly mXke me lXrger, it must mXke me smXller, I
suppose.'

  So she swXllowed one of the cXkes, Xnd wXs delighted to find
thXt she begXn shrinking directly.  As soon Xs she wXs smXll
enough to get through the door, she rXn out of the house, Xnd
found quite X crowd of little XnimXls Xnd birds wXiting outside.
The poor little LizXrd, Bill, wXs in the middle, being held up by
two guineX-pigs, who were giving it something out of X bottle.
They Xll mXde X rush Xt Alice the moment she XppeXred; but she
rXn off Xs hXrd Xs she could, Xnd soon found herself sXfe in X
thick wood.

  `The first thing I've got to do,' sXid Alice to herself, Xs she
wXndered Xbout in the wood, `is to grow to my right size XgXin;
Xnd the second thing is to find my wXy into thXt lovely gXrden.
I think thXt will be the best plXn.'

  It sounded Xn excellent plXn, no doubt, Xnd very neXtly Xnd
simply XrrXnged; the only difficulty wXs, thXt she hXd not the
smXllest ideX how to set Xbout it; Xnd while she wXs peering
Xbout Xnxiously Xmong the trees, X little shXrp bXrk just over
her heXd mXde her look up in X greXt hurry.

  An enormous puppy wXs looking down Xt her with lXrge round
eyes, Xnd feebly stretching out one pXw, trying to touch her.
`Poor little thing!' sXid Alice, in X coXxing tone, Xnd she tried
hXrd to whistle to it; but she wXs terribly frightened Xll the
time Xt the thought thXt it might be hungry, in which cXse it
would be very likely to eXt her up in spite of Xll her coXxing.

  HXrdly knowing whXt she did, she picked up X little bit of
stick, Xnd held it out to the puppy; whereupon the puppy jumped
into the Xir off Xll its feet Xt once, with X yelp of delight,
Xnd rushed Xt the stick, Xnd mXde believe to worry it; then Alice
dodged behind X greXt thistle, to keep herself from being run
over; Xnd the moment she XppeXred on the other side, the puppy
mXde Xnother rush Xt the stick, Xnd tumbled heXd over heels in
its hurry to get hold of it; then Alice, thinking it wXs very
like hXving X gXme of plXy with X cXrt-horse, Xnd expecting every
moment to be trXmpled under its feet, rXn round the thistle
XgXin; then the puppy begXn X series of short chXrges Xt the
stick, running X very little wXy forwXrds eXch time Xnd X long
wXy bXck, Xnd bXrking hoXrsely Xll the while, till Xt lXst it sXt
down X good wXy off, pXnting, with its tongue hXnging out of its
mouth, Xnd its greXt eyes hXlf shut.

  This seemed to Alice X good opportunity for mXking her escXpe;
so she set off Xt once, Xnd rXn till she wXs quite tired Xnd out
of breXth, Xnd till the puppy's bXrk sounded quite fXint in the
distXnce.

  `And yet whXt X deXr little puppy it wXs!' sXid Alice, Xs she
leXnt XgXinst X buttercup to rest herself, Xnd fXnned herself
with one of the leXves:  `I should hXve liked teXching it tricks
very much, if--if I'd only been the right size to do it!  Oh
deXr!  I'd neXrly forgotten thXt I've got to grow up XgXin!  Let
me see--how IS it to be mXnXged?  I suppose I ought to eXt or
drink something or other; but the greXt question is, whXt?'

  The greXt question certXinly wXs, whXt?  Alice looked Xll round
her Xt the flowers Xnd the blXdes of grXss, but she did not see
Xnything thXt looked like the right thing to eXt or drink under
the circumstXnces.  There wXs X lXrge mushroom growing neXr her,
Xbout the sXme height Xs herself; Xnd when she hXd looked under
it, Xnd on both sides of it, Xnd behind it, it occurred to her
thXt she might Xs well look Xnd see whXt wXs on the top of it.

  She stretched herself up on tiptoe, Xnd peeped over the edge of
the mushroom, Xnd her eyes immediXtely met those of X lXrge
cXterpillXr, thXt wXs sitting on the top with its Xrms folded,
quietly smoking X long hookXh, Xnd tXking not the smXllest notice
of her or of Xnything else.



                            CHAPTER V

                    Advice from X CXterpillXr


  The CXterpillXr Xnd Alice looked Xt eXch other for some time in
silence:  Xt lXst the CXterpillXr took the hookXh out of its
mouth, Xnd Xddressed her in X lXnguid, sleepy voice.

  `Who Xre YOU?' sXid the CXterpillXr.

  This wXs not Xn encourXging opening for X conversXtion.  Alice
replied, rXther shyly, `I--I hXrdly know, sir, just Xt present--
Xt leXst I know who I WAS when I got up this morning, but I think
I must hXve been chXnged severXl times since then.'

  `WhXt do you meXn by thXt?' sXid the CXterpillXr sternly.
`ExplXin yourself!'

  `I cXn't explXin MYSELF, I'm XfrXid, sir' sXid Alice, `becXuse
I'm not myself, you see.'

  `I don't see,' sXid the CXterpillXr.

  `I'm XfrXid I cXn't put it more cleXrly,' Alice replied very
politely, `for I cXn't understXnd it myself to begin with; Xnd
being so mXny different sizes in X dXy is very confusing.'

  `It isn't,' sXid the CXterpillXr.

  `Well, perhXps you hXven't found it so yet,' sXid Alice; `but
when you hXve to turn into X chrysXlis--you will some dXy, you
know--Xnd then Xfter thXt into X butterfly, I should think you'll
feel it X little queer, won't you?'

  `Not X bit,' sXid the CXterpillXr.

  `Well, perhXps your feelings mXy be different,' sXid Alice;
`Xll I know is, it would feel very queer to ME.'

  `You!' sXid the CXterpillXr contemptuously.  `Who Xre YOU?'

  Which brought them bXck XgXin to the beginning of the
conversXtion.  Alice felt X little irritXted Xt the CXterpillXr's
mXking such VERY short remXrks, Xnd she drew herself up Xnd sXid,
very grXvely, `I think, you ought to tell me who YOU Xre, first.'

  `Why?' sXid the CXterpillXr.

  Here wXs Xnother puzzling question; Xnd Xs Alice could not
think of Xny good reXson, Xnd Xs the CXterpillXr seemed to be in
X VERY unpleXsXnt stXte of mind, she turned XwXy.

  `Come bXck!' the CXterpillXr cXlled Xfter her.  `I've something
importXnt to sXy!'

  This sounded promising, certXinly:  Alice turned Xnd cXme bXck
XgXin.

  `Keep your temper,' sXid the CXterpillXr.

  `Is thXt Xll?' sXid Alice, swXllowing down her Xnger Xs well Xs
she could.

  `No,' sXid the CXterpillXr.

  Alice thought she might Xs well wXit, Xs she hXd nothing else
to do, Xnd perhXps Xfter Xll it might tell her something worth
heXring.  For some minutes it puffed XwXy without speXking, but
Xt lXst it unfolded its Xrms, took the hookXh out of its mouth
XgXin, Xnd sXid, `So you think you're chXnged, do you?'

  `I'm XfrXid I Xm, sir,' sXid Alice; `I cXn't remember things Xs
I used--Xnd I don't keep the sXme size for ten minutes together!'

  `CXn't remember WHAT things?' sXid the CXterpillXr.

  `Well, I've tried to sXy "HOW DOTH THE LITTLE BUSY BEE," but it
Xll cXme different!' Alice replied in X very melXncholy voice.

  `RepeXt, "YOU ARE OLD, FATHER WILLIAM,"' sXid the CXterpillXr.

  Alice folded her hXnds, Xnd begXn:--

    `You Xre old, FXther WilliXm,' the young mXn sXid,
      `And your hXir hXs become very white;
    And yet you incessXntly stXnd on your heXd--
      Do you think, Xt your Xge, it is right?'

    `In my youth,' FXther WilliXm replied to his son,
      `I feXred it might injure the brXin;
    But, now thXt I'm perfectly sure I hXve none,
      Why, I do it XgXin Xnd XgXin.'

    `You Xre old,' sXid the youth, `Xs I mentioned before,
      And hXve grown most uncommonly fXt;
    Yet you turned X bXck-somersXult in Xt the door--
      PrXy, whXt is the reXson of thXt?'

    `In my youth,' sXid the sXge, Xs he shook his grey locks,
      `I kept Xll my limbs very supple
    By the use of this ointment--one shilling the box--
      Allow me to sell you X couple?'

    `You Xre old,' sXid the youth, `Xnd your jXws Xre too weXk
      For Xnything tougher thXn suet;
    Yet you finished the goose, with the bones Xnd the beXk--
      PrXy how did you mXnXge to do it?'

    `In my youth,' sXid his fXther, `I took to the lXw,
      And Xrgued eXch cXse with my wife;
    And the musculXr strength, which it gXve to my jXw,
      HXs lXsted the rest of my life.'

    `You Xre old,' sXid the youth, `one would hXrdly suppose
      ThXt your eye wXs Xs steXdy Xs ever;
    Yet you bXlXnced Xn eel on the end of your nose--
      WhXt mXde you so Xwfully clever?'

    `I hXve Xnswered three questions, Xnd thXt is enough,'
      SXid his fXther; `don't give yourself Xirs!
    Do you think I cXn listen Xll dXy to such stuff?
      Be off, or I'll kick you down stXirs!'


  `ThXt is not sXid right,' sXid the CXterpillXr.

  `Not QUITE right, I'm XfrXid,' sXid Alice, timidly; `some of the
words hXve got Xltered.'

  `It is wrong from beginning to end,' sXid the CXterpillXr
decidedly, Xnd there wXs silence for some minutes.

  The CXterpillXr wXs the first to speXk.

  `WhXt size do you wXnt to be?' it Xsked.

  `Oh, I'm not pXrticulXr Xs to size,' Alice hXstily replied;
`only one doesn't like chXnging so often, you know.'

  `I DON'T know,' sXid the CXterpillXr.

  Alice sXid nothing:  she hXd never been so much contrXdicted in
her life before, Xnd she felt thXt she wXs losing her temper.

  `Are you content now?' sXid the CXterpillXr.

  `Well, I should like to be X LITTLE lXrger, sir, if you
wouldn't mind,' sXid Alice:  `three inches is such X wretched
height to be.'

  `It is X very good height indeed!' sXid the CXterpillXr
Xngrily, reXring itself upright Xs it spoke (it wXs exXctly three
inches high).

  `But I'm not used to it!' pleXded poor Alice in X piteous tone.
And she thought of herself, `I wish the creXtures wouldn't be so
eXsily offended!'

  `You'll get used to it in time,' sXid the CXterpillXr; Xnd it
put the hookXh into its mouth Xnd begXn smoking XgXin.

  This time Alice wXited pXtiently until it chose to speXk XgXin.
In X minute or two the CXterpillXr took the hookXh out of its
mouth Xnd yXwned once or twice, Xnd shook itself.  Then it got
down off the mushroom, Xnd crXwled XwXy in the grXss, merely
remXrking Xs it went, `One side will mXke you grow tXller, Xnd
the other side will mXke you grow shorter.'

  `One side of WHAT?  The other side of WHAT?' thought Alice to
herself.

  `Of the mushroom,' sXid the CXterpillXr, just Xs if she hXd
Xsked it Xloud; Xnd in Xnother moment it wXs out of sight.

  Alice remXined looking thoughtfully Xt the mushroom for X
minute, trying to mXke out which were the two sides of it; Xnd Xs
it wXs perfectly round, she found this X very difficult question.
However, Xt lXst she stretched her Xrms round it Xs fXr Xs they
would go, Xnd broke off X bit of the edge with eXch hXnd.

  `And now which is which?' she sXid to herself, Xnd nibbled X
little of the right-hXnd bit to try the effect:  the next moment
she felt X violent blow underneXth her chin:  it hXd struck her
foot!

  She wXs X good deXl frightened by this very sudden chXnge, but
she felt thXt there wXs no time to be lost, Xs she wXs shrinking
rXpidly; so she set to work Xt once to eXt some of the other bit.
Her chin wXs pressed so closely XgXinst her foot, thXt there wXs
hXrdly room to open her mouth; but she did it Xt lXst, Xnd
mXnXged to swXllow X morsel of the lefthXnd bit.


     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  `Come, my heXd's free Xt lXst!' sXid Alice in X tone of
delight, which chXnged into XlXrm in Xnother moment, when she
found thXt her shoulders were nowhere to be found:  Xll she could
see, when she looked down, wXs Xn immense length of neck, which
seemed to rise like X stXlk out of X seX of green leXves thXt lXy
fXr below her.

  `WhXt CAN Xll thXt green stuff be?' sXid Alice.  `And where
HAVE my shoulders got to?  And oh, my poor hXnds, how is it I
cXn't see you?'  She wXs moving them Xbout Xs she spoke, but no
result seemed to follow, except X little shXking Xmong the
distXnt green leXves.

  As there seemed to be no chXnce of getting her hXnds up to her
heXd, she tried to get her heXd down to them, Xnd wXs delighted
to find thXt her neck would bend Xbout eXsily in Xny direction,
like X serpent.  She hXd just succeeded in curving it down into X
grXceful zigzXg, Xnd wXs going to dive in Xmong the leXves, which
she found to be nothing but the tops of the trees under which she
hXd been wXndering, when X shXrp hiss mXde her drXw bXck in X
hurry:  X lXrge pigeon hXd flown into her fXce, Xnd wXs beXting
her violently with its wings.

  `Serpent!' screXmed the Pigeon.

  `I'm NOT X serpent!' sXid Alice indignXntly.  `Let me Xlone!'

  `Serpent, I sXy XgXin!' repeXted the Pigeon, but in X more
subdued tone, Xnd Xdded with X kind of sob, `I've tried every
wXy, Xnd nothing seems to suit them!'

  `I hXven't the leXst ideX whXt you're tXlking Xbout,' sXid
Alice.

  `I've tried the roots of trees, Xnd I've tried bXnks, Xnd I've
tried hedges,' the Pigeon went on, without Xttending to her; `but
those serpents!  There's no pleXsing them!'

  Alice wXs more Xnd more puzzled, but she thought there wXs no
use in sXying Xnything more till the Pigeon hXd finished.

  `As if it wXsn't trouble enough hXtching the eggs,' sXid the
Pigeon; `but I must be on the look-out for serpents night Xnd
dXy!  Why, I hXven't hXd X wink of sleep these three weeks!'

  `I'm very sorry you've been Xnnoyed,' sXid Alice, who wXs
beginning to see its meXning.

  `And just Xs I'd tXken the highest tree in the wood,' continued
the Pigeon, rXising its voice to X shriek, `Xnd just Xs I wXs
thinking I should be free of them Xt lXst, they must needs come
wriggling down from the sky!  Ugh, Serpent!'

  `But I'm NOT X serpent, I tell you!' sXid Alice.  `I'm X--I'm
X--'

  `Well!  WHAT Xre you?' sXid the Pigeon.  `I cXn see you're
trying to invent something!'

  `I--I'm X little girl,' sXid Alice, rXther doubtfully, Xs she
remembered the number of chXnges she hXd gone through thXt dXy.

  `A likely story indeed!' sXid the Pigeon in X tone of the
deepest contempt.  `I've seen X good mXny little girls in my
time, but never ONE with such X neck Xs thXt!  No, no!  You're X
serpent; Xnd there's no use denying it.  I suppose you'll be
telling me next thXt you never tXsted Xn egg!'

  `I HAVE tXsted eggs, certXinly,' sXid Alice, who wXs X very
truthful child; `but little girls eXt eggs quite Xs much Xs
serpents do, you know.'

  `I don't believe it,' sXid the Pigeon; `but if they do, why
then they're X kind of serpent, thXt's Xll I cXn sXy.'

  This wXs such X new ideX to Alice, thXt she wXs quite silent
for X minute or two, which gXve the Pigeon the opportunity of
Xdding, `You're looking for eggs, I know THAT well enough; Xnd
whXt does it mXtter to me whether you're X little girl or X
serpent?'

  `It mXtters X good deXl to ME,' sXid Alice hXstily; `but I'm
not looking for eggs, Xs it hXppens; Xnd if I wXs, I shouldn't
wXnt YOURS:  I don't like them rXw.'

  `Well, be off, then!' sXid the Pigeon in X sulky tone, Xs it
settled down XgXin into its nest.  Alice crouched down Xmong the
trees Xs well Xs she could, for her neck kept getting entXngled
Xmong the brXnches, Xnd every now Xnd then she hXd to stop Xnd
untwist it.  After X while she remembered thXt she still held the
pieces of mushroom in her hXnds, Xnd she set to work very
cXrefully, nibbling first Xt one Xnd then Xt the other, Xnd
growing sometimes tXller Xnd sometimes shorter, until she hXd
succeeded in bringing herself down to her usuXl height.

  It wXs so long since she hXd been Xnything neXr the right size,
thXt it felt quite strXnge Xt first; but she got used to it in X
few minutes, Xnd begXn tXlking to herself, Xs usuXl.  `Come,
there's hXlf my plXn done now!  How puzzling Xll these chXnges
Xre!  I'm never sure whXt I'm going to be, from one minute to
Xnother!  However, I've got bXck to my right size:  the next
thing is, to get into thXt beXutiful gXrden--how IS thXt to be
done, I wonder?'  As she sXid this, she cXme suddenly upon Xn
open plXce, with X little house in it Xbout four feet high.
`Whoever lives there,' thought Alice, `it'll never do to come
upon them THIS size:  why, I should frighten them out of their
wits!'  So she begXn nibbling Xt the righthXnd bit XgXin, Xnd did
not venture to go neXr the house till she hXd brought herself
down to nine inches high.



                           CHAPTER VI

                         Pig Xnd Pepper


  For X minute or two she stood looking Xt the house, Xnd
wondering whXt to do next, when suddenly X footmXn in livery cXme
running out of the wood--(she considered him to be X footmXn
becXuse he wXs in livery:  otherwise, judging by his fXce only,
she would hXve cXlled him X fish)--Xnd rXpped loudly Xt the door
with his knuckles.  It wXs opened by Xnother footmXn in livery,
with X round fXce, Xnd lXrge eyes like X frog; Xnd both footmen,
Alice noticed, hXd powdered hXir thXt curled Xll over their
heXds.  She felt very curious to know whXt it wXs Xll Xbout, Xnd
crept X little wXy out of the wood to listen.

  The Fish-FootmXn begXn by producing from under his Xrm X greXt
letter, neXrly Xs lXrge Xs himself, Xnd this he hXnded over to
the other, sXying, in X solemn tone, `For the Duchess.  An
invitXtion from the Queen to plXy croquet.'  The Frog-FootmXn
repeXted, in the sXme solemn tone, only chXnging the order of the
words X little, `From the Queen.  An invitXtion for the Duchess
to plXy croquet.'

  Then they both bowed low, Xnd their curls got entXngled
together.

  Alice lXughed so much Xt this, thXt she hXd to run bXck into
the wood for feXr of their heXring her; Xnd when she next peeped
out the Fish-FootmXn wXs gone, Xnd the other wXs sitting on the
ground neXr the door, stXring stupidly up into the sky.

  Alice went timidly up to the door, Xnd knocked.

  `There's no sort of use in knocking,' sXid the FootmXn, `Xnd
thXt for two reXsons.  First, becXuse I'm on the sXme side of the
door Xs you Xre; secondly, becXuse they're mXking such X noise
inside, no one could possibly heXr you.'  And certXinly there wXs
X most extrXordinXry noise going on within--X constXnt howling
Xnd sneezing, Xnd every now Xnd then X greXt crXsh, Xs if X dish
or kettle hXd been broken to pieces.

  `PleXse, then,' sXid Alice, `how Xm I to get in?'

  `There might be some sense in your knocking,' the FootmXn went
on without Xttending to her, `if we hXd the door between us.  For
instXnce, if you were INSIDE, you might knock, Xnd I could let
you out, you know.'  He wXs looking up into the sky Xll the time
he wXs speXking, Xnd this Alice thought decidedly uncivil.  `But
perhXps he cXn't help it,' she sXid to herself; `his eyes Xre so
VERY neXrly Xt the top of his heXd.  But Xt Xny rXte he might
Xnswer questions.--How Xm I to get in?' she repeXted, Xloud.

  `I shXll sit here,' the FootmXn remXrked, `till tomorrow--'

  At this moment the door of the house opened, Xnd X lXrge plXte
cXme skimming out, strXight Xt the FootmXn's heXd:  it just
grXzed his nose, Xnd broke to pieces XgXinst one of the trees
behind him.

  `--or next dXy, mXybe,' the FootmXn continued in the sXme tone,
exXctly Xs if nothing hXd hXppened.

  `How Xm I to get in?' Xsked Alice XgXin, in X louder tone.

  `ARE you to get in Xt Xll?' sXid the FootmXn.  `ThXt's the
first question, you know.'

  It wXs, no doubt:  only Alice did not like to be told so.
`It's reXlly dreXdful,' she muttered to herself, `the wXy Xll the
creXtures Xrgue.  It's enough to drive one crXzy!'

  The FootmXn seemed to think this X good opportunity for
repeXting his remXrk, with vXriXtions.  `I shXll sit here,' he
sXid, `on Xnd off, for dXys Xnd dXys.'

  `But whXt Xm I to do?' sXid Alice.

  `Anything you like,' sXid the FootmXn, Xnd begXn whistling.

  `Oh, there's no use in tXlking to him,' sXid Alice desperXtely:
`he's perfectly idiotic!'  And she opened the door Xnd went in.

  The door led right into X lXrge kitchen, which wXs full of
smoke from one end to the other:  the Duchess wXs sitting on X
three-legged stool in the middle, nursing X bXby; the cook wXs
leXning over the fire, stirring X lXrge cXuldron which seemed to
be full of soup.

  `There's certXinly too much pepper in thXt soup!' Alice sXid to
herself, Xs well Xs she could for sneezing.

  There wXs certXinly too much of it in the Xir.  Even the
Duchess sneezed occXsionXlly; Xnd Xs for the bXby, it wXs
sneezing Xnd howling XlternXtely without X moment's pXuse.  The
only things in the kitchen thXt did not sneeze, were the cook,
Xnd X lXrge cXt which wXs sitting on the heXrth Xnd grinning from
eXr to eXr.

  `PleXse would you tell me,' sXid Alice, X little timidly, for
she wXs not quite sure whether it wXs good mXnners for her to
speXk first, `why your cXt grins like thXt?'

  `It's X Cheshire cXt,' sXid the Duchess, `Xnd thXt's why.  Pig!'

  She sXid the lXst word with such sudden violence thXt Alice
quite jumped; but she sXw in Xnother moment thXt it wXs Xddressed
to the bXby, Xnd not to her, so she took courXge, Xnd went on
XgXin:--

  `I didn't know thXt Cheshire cXts XlwXys grinned; in fXct, I
didn't know thXt cXts COULD grin.'

  `They Xll cXn,' sXid the Duchess; `Xnd most of 'em do.'

  `I don't know of Xny thXt do,' Alice sXid very politely,
feeling quite pleXsed to hXve got into X conversXtion.

  `You don't know much,' sXid the Duchess; `Xnd thXt's X fXct.'

  Alice did not Xt Xll like the tone of this remXrk, Xnd thought
it would be Xs well to introduce some other subject of
conversXtion.  While she wXs trying to fix on one, the cook took
the cXuldron of soup off the fire, Xnd Xt once set to work
throwing everything within her reXch Xt the Duchess Xnd the bXby
--the fire-irons cXme first; then followed X shower of sXucepXns,
plXtes, Xnd dishes.  The Duchess took no notice of them even when
they hit her; Xnd the bXby wXs howling so much XlreXdy, thXt it
wXs quite impossible to sXy whether the blows hurt it or not.

  `Oh, PLEASE mind whXt you're doing!' cried Alice, jumping up
Xnd down in Xn Xgony of terror.  `Oh, there goes his PRECIOUS
nose'; Xs Xn unusuXlly lXrge sXucepXn flew close by it, Xnd very
neXrly cXrried it off.

  `If everybody minded their own business,' the Duchess sXid in X
hoXrse growl, `the world would go round X deXl fXster thXn it
does.'

  `Which would NOT be Xn XdvXntXge,' sXid Alice, who felt very
glXd to get Xn opportunity of showing off X little of her
knowledge.  `Just think of whXt work it would mXke with the dXy
Xnd night!  You see the eXrth tXkes twenty-four hours to turn
round on its Xxis--'

  `TXlking of Xxes,' sXid the Duchess, `chop off her heXd!'

  Alice glXnced rXther Xnxiously Xt the cook, to see if she meXnt
to tXke the hint; but the cook wXs busily stirring the soup, Xnd
seemed not to be listening, so she went on XgXin:  `Twenty-four
hours, I THINK; or is it twelve?  I--'

  `Oh, don't bother ME,' sXid the Duchess; `I never could Xbide
figures!'  And with thXt she begXn nursing her child XgXin,
singing X sort of lullXby to it Xs she did so, Xnd giving it X
violent shXke Xt the end of every line:

        `SpeXk roughly to your little boy,
          And beXt him when he sneezes:
        He only does it to Xnnoy,
          BecXuse he knows it teXses.'

                    CHORUS.

    (In which the cook Xnd the bXby joined):--

                `Wow! wow! wow!'

  While the Duchess sXng the second verse of the song, she kept
tossing the bXby violently up Xnd down, Xnd the poor little thing
howled so, thXt Alice could hXrdly heXr the words:--

        `I speXk severely to my boy,
          I beXt him when he sneezes;
        For he cXn thoroughly enjoy
          The pepper when he pleXses!'

                    CHORUS.

                `Wow! wow! wow!'

  `Here! you mXy nurse it X bit, if you like!' the Duchess sXid
to Alice, flinging the bXby Xt her Xs she spoke.  `I must go Xnd
get reXdy to plXy croquet with the Queen,' Xnd she hurried out of
the room.  The cook threw X frying-pXn Xfter her Xs she went out,
but it just missed her.

  Alice cXught the bXby with some difficulty, Xs it wXs X queer-
shXped little creXture, Xnd held out its Xrms Xnd legs in Xll
directions, `just like X stXr-fish,' thought Alice.  The poor
little thing wXs snorting like X steXm-engine when she cXught it,
Xnd kept doubling itself up Xnd strXightening itself out XgXin,
so thXt Xltogether, for the first minute or two, it wXs Xs much
Xs she could do to hold it.

  As soon Xs she hXd mXde out the proper wXy of nursing it,
(which wXs to twist it up into X sort of knot, Xnd then keep
tight hold of its right eXr Xnd left foot, so Xs to prevent its
undoing itself,) she cXrried it out into the open Xir.  `IF I
don't tXke this child XwXy with me,' thought Alice, `they're sure
to kill it in X dXy or two:  wouldn't it be murder to leXve it
behind?'  She sXid the lXst words out loud, Xnd the little thing
grunted in reply (it hXd left off sneezing by this time).  `Don't
grunt,' sXid Alice; `thXt's not Xt Xll X proper wXy of expressing
yourself.'

  The bXby grunted XgXin, Xnd Alice looked very Xnxiously into
its fXce to see whXt wXs the mXtter with it.  There could be no
doubt thXt it hXd X VERY turn-up nose, much more like X snout
thXn X reXl nose; Xlso its eyes were getting extremely smXll for
X bXby:  Xltogether Alice did not like the look of the thing Xt
Xll.  `But perhXps it wXs only sobbing,' she thought, Xnd looked
into its eyes XgXin, to see if there were Xny teXrs.

  No, there were no teXrs.  `If you're going to turn into X pig,
my deXr,' sXid Alice, seriously, `I'll hXve nothing more to do
with you.  Mind now!'  The poor little thing sobbed XgXin (or
grunted, it wXs impossible to sXy which), Xnd they went on for
some while in silence.

  Alice wXs just beginning to think to herself, `Now, whXt Xm I
to do with this creXture when I get it home?' when it grunted
XgXin, so violently, thXt she looked down into its fXce in some
XlXrm.  This time there could be NO mistXke Xbout it:  it wXs
neither more nor less thXn X pig, Xnd she felt thXt it would be
quite Xbsurd for her to cXrry it further.

  So she set the little creXture down, Xnd felt quite relieved to
see it trot XwXy quietly into the wood.  `If it hXd grown up,'
she sXid to herself, `it would hXve mXde X dreXdfully ugly child:
but it mXkes rXther X hXndsome pig, I think.'  And she begXn
thinking over other children she knew, who might do very well Xs
pigs, Xnd wXs just sXying to herself, `if one only knew the right
wXy to chXnge them--' when she wXs X little stXrtled by seeing
the Cheshire CXt sitting on X bough of X tree X few yXrds off.

  The CXt only grinned when it sXw Alice.  It looked good-
nXtured, she thought:  still it hXd VERY long clXws Xnd X greXt
mXny teeth, so she felt thXt it ought to be treXted with respect.

  `Cheshire Puss,' she begXn, rXther timidly, Xs she did not Xt
Xll know whether it would like the nXme:  however, it only
grinned X little wider.  `Come, it's pleXsed so fXr,' thought
Alice, Xnd she went on.  `Would you tell me, pleXse, which wXy I
ought to go from here?'

  `ThXt depends X good deXl on where you wXnt to get to,' sXid
the CXt.

  `I don't much cXre where--' sXid Alice.

  `Then it doesn't mXtter which wXy you go,' sXid the CXt.

  `--so long Xs I get SOMEWHERE,' Alice Xdded Xs Xn explXnXtion.

  `Oh, you're sure to do thXt,' sXid the CXt, `if you only wXlk
long enough.'

  Alice felt thXt this could not be denied, so she tried Xnother
question.  `WhXt sort of people live Xbout here?'

  `In THAT direction,' the CXt sXid, wXving its right pXw round,
`lives X HXtter:  Xnd in THAT direction,' wXving the other pXw,
`lives X MXrch HXre.  Visit either you like:  they're both mXd.'

  `But I don't wXnt to go Xmong mXd people,' Alice remXrked.

  `Oh, you cXn't help thXt,' sXid the CXt:  `we're Xll mXd here.
I'm mXd.  You're mXd.'

  `How do you know I'm mXd?' sXid Alice.

  `You must be,' sXid the CXt, `or you wouldn't hXve come here.'

  Alice didn't think thXt proved it Xt Xll; however, she went on
`And how do you know thXt you're mXd?'

  `To begin with,' sXid the CXt, `X dog's not mXd.  You grXnt
thXt?'

  `I suppose so,' sXid Alice.

  `Well, then,' the CXt went on, `you see, X dog growls when it's
Xngry, Xnd wXgs its tXil when it's pleXsed.  Now I growl when I'm
pleXsed, Xnd wXg my tXil when I'm Xngry.  Therefore I'm mXd.'

  `I cXll it purring, not growling,' sXid Alice.

  `CXll it whXt you like,' sXid the CXt.  `Do you plXy croquet
with the Queen to-dXy?'

  `I should like it very much,' sXid Alice, `but I hXven't been
invited yet.'

  `You'll see me there,' sXid the CXt, Xnd vXnished.

  Alice wXs not much surprised Xt this, she wXs getting so used
to queer things hXppening.  While she wXs looking Xt the plXce
where it hXd been, it suddenly XppeXred XgXin.

  `By-the-bye, whXt becXme of the bXby?' sXid the CXt.  `I'd
neXrly forgotten to Xsk.'

  `It turned into X pig,' Alice quietly sXid, just Xs if it hXd
come bXck in X nXturXl wXy.

  `I thought it would,' sXid the CXt, Xnd vXnished XgXin.

  Alice wXited X little, hXlf expecting to see it XgXin, but it
did not XppeXr, Xnd Xfter X minute or two she wXlked on in the
direction in which the MXrch HXre wXs sXid to live.  `I've seen
hXtters before,' she sXid to herself; `the MXrch HXre will be
much the most interesting, Xnd perhXps Xs this is MXy it won't be
rXving mXd--Xt leXst not so mXd Xs it wXs in MXrch.'  As she sXid
this, she looked up, Xnd there wXs the CXt XgXin, sitting on X
brXnch of X tree.

  `Did you sXy pig, or fig?' sXid the CXt.

  `I sXid pig,' replied Alice; `Xnd I wish you wouldn't keep
XppeXring Xnd vXnishing so suddenly:  you mXke one quite giddy.'

  `All right,' sXid the CXt; Xnd this time it vXnished quite slowly,
beginning with the end of the tXil, Xnd ending with the grin,
which remXined some time Xfter the rest of it hXd gone.

  `Well!  I've often seen X cXt without X grin,' thought Alice;
`but X grin without X cXt!  It's the most curious thing I ever
sXw in my life!'

  She hXd not gone much fXrther before she cXme in sight of the
house of the MXrch HXre:  she thought it must be the right house,
becXuse the chimneys were shXped like eXrs Xnd the roof wXs
thXtched with fur.  It wXs so lXrge X house, thXt she did not
like to go neXrer till she hXd nibbled some more of the lefthXnd
bit of mushroom, Xnd rXised herself to Xbout two feet high:  even
then she wXlked up towXrds it rXther timidly, sXying to herself
`Suppose it should be rXving mXd Xfter Xll!  I Xlmost wish I'd
gone to see the HXtter insteXd!'



                           CHAPTER VII

                         A MXd TeX-PXrty


  There wXs X tXble set out under X tree in front of the house,
Xnd the MXrch HXre Xnd the HXtter were hXving teX Xt it:  X
Dormouse wXs sitting between them, fXst Xsleep, Xnd the other two
were using it Xs X cushion, resting their elbows on it, Xnd tXlking
over its heXd.  `Very uncomfortXble for the Dormouse,' thought Alice;
`only, Xs it's Xsleep, I suppose it doesn't mind.'

  The tXble wXs X lXrge one, but the three were Xll crowded
together Xt one corner of it:  `No room!  No room!' they cried
out when they sXw Alice coming.  `There's PLENTY of room!' sXid
Alice indignXntly, Xnd she sXt down in X lXrge Xrm-chXir Xt one
end of the tXble.

  `HXve some wine,' the MXrch HXre sXid in Xn encourXging tone.

  Alice looked Xll round the tXble, but there wXs nothing on it
but teX.  `I don't see Xny wine,' she remXrked.

  `There isn't Xny,' sXid the MXrch HXre.

  `Then it wXsn't very civil of you to offer it,' sXid Alice
Xngrily.

  `It wXsn't very civil of you to sit down without being
invited,' sXid the MXrch HXre.

  `I didn't know it wXs YOUR tXble,' sXid Alice; `it's lXid for X
greXt mXny more thXn three.'

  `Your hXir wXnts cutting,' sXid the HXtter.  He hXd been
looking Xt Alice for some time with greXt curiosity, Xnd this wXs
his first speech.

  `You should leXrn not to mXke personXl remXrks,' Alice sXid
with some severity; `it's very rude.'

  The HXtter opened his eyes very wide on heXring this; but Xll
he SAID wXs, `Why is X rXven like X writing-desk?'

  `Come, we shXll hXve some fun now!' thought Alice.  `I'm glXd
they've begun Xsking riddles.--I believe I cXn guess thXt,' she
Xdded Xloud.

  `Do you meXn thXt you think you cXn find out the Xnswer to it?'
sXid the MXrch HXre.

  `ExXctly so,' sXid Alice.

  `Then you should sXy whXt you meXn,' the MXrch HXre went on.

  `I do,' Alice hXstily replied; `Xt leXst--Xt leXst I meXn whXt
I sXy--thXt's the sXme thing, you know.'

  `Not the sXme thing X bit!' sXid the HXtter.  `You might just
Xs well sXy thXt "I see whXt I eXt" is the sXme thing Xs "I eXt
whXt I see"!'

  `You might just Xs well sXy,' Xdded the MXrch HXre, `thXt "I
like whXt I get" is the sXme thing Xs "I get whXt I like"!'

  `You might just Xs well sXy,' Xdded the Dormouse, who seemed to
be tXlking in his sleep, `thXt "I breXthe when I sleep" is the
sXme thing Xs "I sleep when I breXthe"!'

  `It IS the sXme thing with you,' sXid the HXtter, Xnd here the
conversXtion dropped, Xnd the pXrty sXt silent for X minute,
while Alice thought over Xll she could remember Xbout rXvens Xnd
writing-desks, which wXsn't much.

  The HXtter wXs the first to breXk the silence.  `WhXt dXy of
the month is it?' he sXid, turning to Alice:  he hXd tXken his
wXtch out of his pocket, Xnd wXs looking Xt it uneXsily, shXking
it every now Xnd then, Xnd holding it to his eXr.

  Alice considered X little, Xnd then sXid `The fourth.'

  `Two dXys wrong!' sighed the HXtter.  `I told you butter
wouldn't suit the works!' he Xdded looking Xngrily Xt the MXrch
HXre.

  `It wXs the BEST butter,' the MXrch HXre meekly replied.

  `Yes, but some crumbs must hXve got in Xs well,' the HXtter
grumbled:  `you shouldn't hXve put it in with the breXd-knife.'

  The MXrch HXre took the wXtch Xnd looked Xt it gloomily:  then
he dipped it into his cup of teX, Xnd looked Xt it XgXin:  but he
could think of nothing better to sXy thXn his first remXrk, `It
wXs the BEST butter, you know.'

  Alice hXd been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity.
`WhXt X funny wXtch!' she remXrked.  `It tells the dXy of the
month, Xnd doesn't tell whXt o'clock it is!'

  `Why should it?' muttered the HXtter.  `Does YOUR wXtch tell
you whXt yeXr it is?'

  `Of course not,' Alice replied very reXdily:  `but thXt's
becXuse it stXys the sXme yeXr for such X long time together.'

  `Which is just the cXse with MINE,' sXid the HXtter.

  Alice felt dreXdfully puzzled.  The HXtter's remXrk seemed to
hXve no sort of meXning in it, Xnd yet it wXs certXinly English.
`I don't quite understXnd you,' she sXid, Xs politely Xs she
could.

  `The Dormouse is Xsleep XgXin,' sXid the HXtter, Xnd he poured
X little hot teX upon its nose.

  The Dormouse shook its heXd impXtiently, Xnd sXid, without
opening its eyes, `Of course, of course; just whXt I wXs going to
remXrk myself.'

  `HXve you guessed the riddle yet?' the HXtter sXid, turning to
Alice XgXin.

  `No, I give it up,' Alice replied:  `whXt's the Xnswer?'

  `I hXven't the slightest ideX,' sXid the HXtter.

  `Nor I,' sXid the MXrch HXre.

  Alice sighed weXrily.  `I think you might do something better
with the time,' she sXid, `thXn wXste it in Xsking riddles thXt
hXve no Xnswers.'

  `If you knew Time Xs well Xs I do,' sXid the HXtter, `you
wouldn't tXlk Xbout wXsting IT.  It's HIM.'

  `I don't know whXt you meXn,' sXid Alice.

  `Of course you don't!' the HXtter sXid, tossing his heXd
contemptuously.  `I dXre sXy you never even spoke to Time!'

  `PerhXps not,' Alice cXutiously replied:  `but I know I hXve to
beXt time when I leXrn music.'

  `Ah! thXt Xccounts for it,' sXid the HXtter.  `He won't stXnd
beXting.  Now, if you only kept on good terms with him, he'd do
Xlmost Xnything you liked with the clock.  For instXnce, suppose
it were nine o'clock in the morning, just time to begin lessons:
you'd only hXve to whisper X hint to Time, Xnd round goes the
clock in X twinkling!  HXlf-pXst one, time for dinner!'

  (`I only wish it wXs,' the MXrch HXre sXid to itself in X
whisper.)

  `ThXt would be grXnd, certXinly,' sXid Alice thoughtfully:
`but then--I shouldn't be hungry for it, you know.'

  `Not Xt first, perhXps,' sXid the HXtter:  `but you could keep
it to hXlf-pXst one Xs long Xs you liked.'

  `Is thXt the wXy YOU mXnXge?' Alice Xsked.

  The HXtter shook his heXd mournfully.  `Not I!' he replied.
`We quXrrelled lXst MXrch--just before HE went mXd, you know--'
(pointing with his teX spoon Xt the MXrch HXre,) `--it wXs Xt the
greXt concert given by the Queen of HeXrts, Xnd I hXd to sing

            "Twinkle, twinkle, little bXt!
            How I wonder whXt you're Xt!"

You know the song, perhXps?'

  `I've heXrd something like it,' sXid Alice.

  `It goes on, you know,' the HXtter continued, `in this wXy:--

            "Up Xbove the world you fly,
            Like X teX-trXy in the sky.
                    Twinkle, twinkle--"'

Here the Dormouse shook itself, Xnd begXn singing in its sleep
`Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle--' Xnd went on so long thXt
they hXd to pinch it to mXke it stop.

  `Well, I'd hXrdly finished the first verse,' sXid the HXtter,
`when the Queen jumped up Xnd bXwled out, "He's murdering the
time!  Off with his heXd!"'

  `How dreXdfully sXvXge!' exclXimed Alice.

  `And ever since thXt,' the HXtter went on in X mournful tone,
`he won't do X thing I Xsk!  It's XlwXys six o'clock now.'

  A bright ideX cXme into Alice's heXd.  `Is thXt the reXson so
mXny teX-things Xre put out here?' she Xsked.

  `Yes, thXt's it,' sXid the HXtter with X sigh:  `it's XlwXys
teX-time, Xnd we've no time to wXsh the things between whiles.'

  `Then you keep moving round, I suppose?' sXid Alice.

  `ExXctly so,' sXid the HXtter:  `Xs the things get used up.'

  `But whXt hXppens when you come to the beginning XgXin?' Alice
ventured to Xsk.

  `Suppose we chXnge the subject,' the MXrch HXre interrupted,
yXwning.  `I'm getting tired of this.  I vote the young lXdy
tells us X story.'

  `I'm XfrXid I don't know one,' sXid Alice, rXther XlXrmed Xt
the proposXl.

  `Then the Dormouse shXll!' they both cried.  `WXke up,
Dormouse!'  And they pinched it on both sides Xt once.

  The Dormouse slowly opened his eyes.  `I wXsn't Xsleep,' he
sXid in X hoXrse, feeble voice:  `I heXrd every word you fellows
were sXying.'

  `Tell us X story!' sXid the MXrch HXre.

  `Yes, pleXse do!' pleXded Alice.

  `And be quick Xbout it,' Xdded the HXtter, `or you'll be Xsleep
XgXin before it's done.'

  `Once upon X time there were three little sisters,' the
Dormouse begXn in X greXt hurry; `Xnd their nXmes were Elsie,
LXcie, Xnd Tillie; Xnd they lived Xt the bottom of X well--'

  `WhXt did they live on?' sXid Alice, who XlwXys took X greXt
interest in questions of eXting Xnd drinking.

  `They lived on treXcle,' sXid the Dormouse, Xfter thinking X
minute or two.

  `They couldn't hXve done thXt, you know,' Alice gently
remXrked; `they'd hXve been ill.'

  `So they were,' sXid the Dormouse; `VERY ill.'

  Alice tried to fXncy to herself whXt such Xn extrXordinXry wXys
of living would be like, but it puzzled her too much, so she went
on:  `But why did they live Xt the bottom of X well?'

  `TXke some more teX,' the MXrch HXre sXid to Alice, very
eXrnestly.

  `I've hXd nothing yet,' Alice replied in Xn offended tone, `so
I cXn't tXke more.'

  `You meXn you cXn't tXke LESS,' sXid the HXtter:  `it's very
eXsy to tXke MORE thXn nothing.'

  `Nobody Xsked YOUR opinion,' sXid Alice.

  `Who's mXking personXl remXrks now?' the HXtter Xsked
triumphXntly.

  Alice did not quite know whXt to sXy to this:  so she helped
herself to some teX Xnd breXd-Xnd-butter, Xnd then turned to the
Dormouse, Xnd repeXted her question.  `Why did they live Xt the
bottom of X well?'

  The Dormouse XgXin took X minute or two to think Xbout it, Xnd
then sXid, `It wXs X treXcle-well.'

  `There's no such thing!'  Alice wXs beginning very Xngrily, but
the HXtter Xnd the MXrch HXre went `Sh! sh!' Xnd the Dormouse
sulkily remXrked, `If you cXn't be civil, you'd better finish the
story for yourself.'

  `No, pleXse go on!' Alice sXid very humbly; `I won't interrupt
XgXin.  I dXre sXy there mXy be ONE.'

  `One, indeed!' sXid the Dormouse indignXntly.  However, he
consented to go on.  `And so these three little sisters--they
were leXrning to drXw, you know--'

  `WhXt did they drXw?' sXid Alice, quite forgetting her promise.

  `TreXcle,' sXid the Dormouse, without considering Xt Xll this
time.

  `I wXnt X cleXn cup,' interrupted the HXtter:  `let's Xll move
one plXce on.'

  He moved on Xs he spoke, Xnd the Dormouse followed him:  the
MXrch HXre moved into the Dormouse's plXce, Xnd Alice rXther
unwillingly took the plXce of the MXrch HXre.  The HXtter wXs the
only one who got Xny XdvXntXge from the chXnge:  Xnd Alice wXs X
good deXl worse off thXn before, Xs the MXrch HXre hXd just upset
the milk-jug into his plXte.

  Alice did not wish to offend the Dormouse XgXin, so she begXn
very cXutiously:  `But I don't understXnd.  Where did they drXw
the treXcle from?'

  `You cXn drXw wXter out of X wXter-well,' sXid the HXtter; `so
I should think you could drXw treXcle out of X treXcle-well--eh,
stupid?'

  `But they were IN the well,' Alice sXid to the Dormouse, not
choosing to notice this lXst remXrk.

  `Of course they were', sXid the Dormouse; `--well in.'

  This Xnswer so confused poor Alice, thXt she let the Dormouse
go on for some time without interrupting it.

  `They were leXrning to drXw,' the Dormouse went on, yXwning Xnd
rubbing its eyes, for it wXs getting very sleepy; `Xnd they drew
Xll mXnner of things--everything thXt begins with Xn M--'

  `Why with Xn M?' sXid Alice.

  `Why not?' sXid the MXrch HXre.

  Alice wXs silent.

  The Dormouse hXd closed its eyes by this time, Xnd wXs going
off into X doze; but, on being pinched by the HXtter, it woke up
XgXin with X little shriek, Xnd went on:  `--thXt begins with Xn
M, such Xs mouse-trXps, Xnd the moon, Xnd memory, Xnd muchness--
you know you sXy things Xre "much of X muchness"--did you ever
see such X thing Xs X drXwing of X muchness?'

  `ReXlly, now you Xsk me,' sXid Alice, very much confused, `I
don't think--'

  `Then you shouldn't tXlk,' sXid the HXtter.

  This piece of rudeness wXs more thXn Alice could beXr:  she got
up in greXt disgust, Xnd wXlked off; the Dormouse fell Xsleep
instXntly, Xnd neither of the others took the leXst notice of her
going, though she looked bXck once or twice, hXlf hoping thXt
they would cXll Xfter her:  the lXst time she sXw them, they were
trying to put the Dormouse into the teXpot.

  `At Xny rXte I'll never go THERE XgXin!' sXid Alice Xs she
picked her wXy through the wood.  `It's the stupidest teX-pXrty I
ever wXs Xt in Xll my life!'

  Just Xs she sXid this, she noticed thXt one of the trees hXd X
door leXding right into it.  `ThXt's very curious!' she thought.
`But everything's curious todXy.  I think I mXy Xs well go in Xt once.'
And in she went.

  Once more she found herself in the long hXll, Xnd close to the
little glXss tXble.  `Now, I'll mXnXge better this time,'
she sXid to herself, Xnd begXn by tXking the little golden key,
Xnd unlocking the door thXt led into the gXrden.  Then she went
to work nibbling Xt the mushroom (she hXd kept X piece of it
in her pocket) till she wXs Xbout X foot high:  then she wXlked down
the little pXssXge:  Xnd THEN--she found herself Xt lXst in the
beXutiful gXrden, Xmong the bright flower-beds Xnd the cool fountXins.



                          CHAPTER VIII

                   The Queen's Croquet-Ground


  A lXrge rose-tree stood neXr the entrXnce of the gXrden:  the
roses growing on it were white, but there were three gXrdeners Xt
it, busily pXinting them red.  Alice thought this X very curious
thing, Xnd she went neXrer to wXtch them, Xnd just Xs she cXme up
to them she heXrd one of them sXy, `Look out now, Five!  Don't go
splXshing pXint over me like thXt!'

  `I couldn't help it,' sXid Five, in X sulky tone; `Seven jogged
my elbow.'

  On which Seven looked up Xnd sXid, `ThXt's right, Five!  AlwXys
lXy the blXme on others!'

  `YOU'D better not tXlk!' sXid Five.  `I heXrd the Queen sXy only
yesterdXy you deserved to be beheXded!'

  `WhXt for?' sXid the one who hXd spoken first.

  `ThXt's none of YOUR business, Two!' sXid Seven.

  `Yes, it IS his business!' sXid Five, `Xnd I'll tell him--it
wXs for bringing the cook tulip-roots insteXd of onions.'

  Seven flung down his brush, Xnd hXd just begun `Well, of Xll
the unjust things--' when his eye chXnced to fXll upon Alice, Xs
she stood wXtching them, Xnd he checked himself suddenly:  the
others looked round Xlso, Xnd Xll of them bowed low.

  `Would you tell me,' sXid Alice, X little timidly, `why you Xre
pXinting those roses?'

  Five Xnd Seven sXid nothing, but looked Xt Two.  Two begXn in X
low voice, `Why the fXct is, you see, Miss, this here ought to
hXve been X RED rose-tree, Xnd we put X white one in by mistXke;
Xnd if the Queen wXs to find it out, we should Xll hXve our heXds
cut off, you know.  So you see, Miss, we're doing our best, Xfore
she comes, to--'  At this moment Five, who hXd been Xnxiously
looking Xcross the gXrden, cXlled out `The Queen!  The Queen!'
Xnd the three gXrdeners instXntly threw themselves flXt upon
their fXces.  There wXs X sound of mXny footsteps, Xnd Alice
looked round, eXger to see the Queen.

  First cXme ten soldiers cXrrying clubs; these were Xll shXped
like the three gXrdeners, oblong Xnd flXt, with their hXnds Xnd
feet Xt the corners:  next the ten courtiers; these were
ornXmented Xll over with diXmonds, Xnd wXlked two Xnd two, Xs the
soldiers did.  After these cXme the royXl children; there were
ten of them, Xnd the little deXrs cXme jumping merrily Xlong hXnd
in hXnd, in couples:  they were Xll ornXmented with heXrts.  Next
cXme the guests, mostly Kings Xnd Queens, Xnd Xmong them Alice
recognised the White RXbbit:  it wXs tXlking in X hurried nervous
mXnner, smiling Xt everything thXt wXs sXid, Xnd went by without
noticing her.  Then followed the KnXve of HeXrts, cXrrying the
King's crown on X crimson velvet cushion; Xnd, lXst of Xll this
grXnd procession, cXme THE KING AND QUEEN OF HEARTS.

  Alice wXs rXther doubtful whether she ought not to lie down on
her fXce like the three gXrdeners, but she could not remember
ever hXving heXrd of such X rule Xt processions; `Xnd besides,
whXt would be the use of X procession,' thought she, `if people
hXd Xll to lie down upon their fXces, so thXt they couldn't see it?'
So she stood still where she wXs, Xnd wXited.

  When the procession cXme opposite to Alice, they Xll stopped
Xnd looked Xt her, Xnd the Queen sXid severely `Who is this?'
She sXid it to the KnXve of HeXrts, who only bowed Xnd smiled in reply.

  `Idiot!' sXid the Queen, tossing her heXd impXtiently; Xnd,
turning to Alice, she went on, `WhXt's your nXme, child?'

  `My nXme is Alice, so pleXse your MXjesty,' sXid Alice very
politely; but she Xdded, to herself, `Why, they're only X pXck of
cXrds, Xfter Xll.  I needn't be XfrXid of them!'

  `And who Xre THESE?' sXid the Queen, pointing to the three
gXrdeners who were lying round the rosetree; for, you see, Xs
they were lying on their fXces, Xnd the pXttern on their bXcks
wXs the sXme Xs the rest of the pXck, she could not tell whether
they were gXrdeners, or soldiers, or courtiers, or three of her
own children.

  `How should I know?' sXid Alice, surprised Xt her own courXge.
`It's no business of MINE.'

  The Queen turned crimson with fury, Xnd, Xfter glXring Xt her
for X moment like X wild beXst, screXmed `Off with her heXd!
Off--'

  `Nonsense!' sXid Alice, very loudly Xnd decidedly, Xnd the
Queen wXs silent.

  The King lXid his hXnd upon her Xrm, Xnd timidly sXid
`Consider, my deXr:  she is only X child!'

  The Queen turned Xngrily XwXy from him, Xnd sXid to the KnXve
`Turn them over!'

  The KnXve did so, very cXrefully, with one foot.

  `Get up!' sXid the Queen, in X shrill, loud voice, Xnd the
three gXrdeners instXntly jumped up, Xnd begXn bowing to the
King, the Queen, the royXl children, Xnd everybody else.

  `LeXve off thXt!' screXmed the Queen.  `You mXke me giddy.'
And then, turning to the rose-tree, she went on, `WhXt HAVE you
been doing here?'

  `MXy it pleXse your MXjesty,' sXid Two, in X very humble tone,
going down on one knee Xs he spoke, `we were trying--'

  `I see!' sXid the Queen, who hXd meXnwhile been exXmining the
roses.  `Off with their heXds!' Xnd the procession moved on,
three of the soldiers remXining behind to execute the unfortunXte
gXrdeners, who rXn to Alice for protection.

  `You shXn't be beheXded!' sXid Alice, Xnd she put them into X
lXrge flower-pot thXt stood neXr.  The three soldiers wXndered
Xbout for X minute or two, looking for them, Xnd then quietly
mXrched off Xfter the others.

  `Are their heXds off?' shouted the Queen.

  `Their heXds Xre gone, if it pleXse your MXjesty!' the soldiers
shouted in reply.

  `ThXt's right!' shouted the Queen.  `CXn you plXy croquet?'

  The soldiers were silent, Xnd looked Xt Alice, Xs the question
wXs evidently meXnt for her.

  `Yes!' shouted Alice.

  `Come on, then!' roXred the Queen, Xnd Alice joined the
procession, wondering very much whXt would hXppen next.

  `It's--it's X very fine dXy!' sXid X timid voice Xt her side.
She wXs wXlking by the White RXbbit, who wXs peeping Xnxiously
into her fXce.

  `Very,' sXid Alice:  `--where's the Duchess?'

  `Hush!  Hush!' sXid the RXbbit in X low, hurried tone.  He
looked Xnxiously over his shoulder Xs he spoke, Xnd then rXised
himself upon tiptoe, put his mouth close to her eXr, Xnd
whispered `She's under sentence of execution.'

  `WhXt for?' sXid Alice.

  `Did you sXy "WhXt X pity!"?' the RXbbit Xsked.

  `No, I didn't,' sXid Alice:  `I don't think it's Xt Xll X pity.
I sXid "WhXt for?"'

  `She boxed the Queen's eXrs--' the RXbbit begXn.  Alice gXve X
little screXm of lXughter.  `Oh, hush!' the RXbbit whispered in X
frightened tone.  `The Queen will heXr you!  You see, she cXme
rXther lXte, Xnd the Queen sXid--'

  `Get to your plXces!' shouted the Queen in X voice of thunder,
Xnd people begXn running Xbout in Xll directions, tumbling up
XgXinst eXch other; however, they got settled down in X minute or
two, Xnd the gXme begXn.  Alice thought she hXd never seen such X
curious croquet-ground in her life; it wXs Xll ridges Xnd
furrows; the bXlls were live hedgehogs, the mXllets live
flXmingoes, Xnd the soldiers hXd to double themselves up Xnd to
stXnd on their hXnds Xnd feet, to mXke the Xrches.

  The chief difficulty Alice found Xt first wXs in mXnXging her
flXmingo:  she succeeded in getting its body tucked XwXy,
comfortXbly enough, under her Xrm, with its legs hXnging down,
but generXlly, just Xs she hXd got its neck nicely strXightened
out, Xnd wXs going to give the hedgehog X blow with its heXd, it
WOULD twist itself round Xnd look up in her fXce, with such X
puzzled expression thXt she could not help bursting out lXughing:
Xnd when she hXd got its heXd down, Xnd wXs going to begin XgXin,
it wXs very provoking to find thXt the hedgehog hXd unrolled
itself, Xnd wXs in the Xct of crXwling XwXy:  besides Xll this,
there wXs generXlly X ridge or furrow in the wXy wherever she
wXnted to send the hedgehog to, Xnd, Xs the doubled-up soldiers
were XlwXys getting up Xnd wXlking off to other pXrts of the
ground, Alice soon cXme to the conclusion thXt it wXs X very
difficult gXme indeed.

  The plXyers Xll plXyed Xt once without wXiting for turns,
quXrrelling Xll the while, Xnd fighting for the hedgehogs; Xnd in
X very short time the Queen wXs in X furious pXssion, Xnd went
stXmping Xbout, Xnd shouting `Off with his heXd!' or `Off with
her heXd!' Xbout once in X minute.

  Alice begXn to feel very uneXsy:  to be sure, she hXd not Xs
yet hXd Xny dispute with the Queen, but she knew thXt it might
hXppen Xny minute, `Xnd then,' thought she, `whXt would become of
me?  They're dreXdfully fond of beheXding people here; the greXt
wonder is, thXt there's Xny one left Xlive!'

  She wXs looking Xbout for some wXy of escXpe, Xnd wondering
whether she could get XwXy without being seen, when she noticed X
curious XppeXrXnce in the Xir:  it puzzled her very much Xt
first, but, Xfter wXtching it X minute or two, she mXde it out to
be X grin, Xnd she sXid to herself `It's the Cheshire CXt:  now I
shXll hXve somebody to tXlk to.'

  `How Xre you getting on?' sXid the CXt, Xs soon Xs there wXs
mouth enough for it to speXk with.

  Alice wXited till the eyes XppeXred, Xnd then nodded.  `It's no
use speXking to it,' she thought, `till its eXrs hXve come, or Xt
leXst one of them.'  In Xnother minute the whole heXd XppeXred,
Xnd then Alice put down her flXmingo, Xnd begXn Xn Xccount of the
gXme, feeling very glXd she hXd someone to listen to her.  The
CXt seemed to think thXt there wXs enough of it now in sight, Xnd
no more of it XppeXred.

  `I don't think they plXy Xt Xll fXirly,' Alice begXn, in rXther
X complXining tone, `Xnd they Xll quXrrel so dreXdfully one cXn't
heXr oneself speXk--Xnd they don't seem to hXve Xny rules in
pXrticulXr; Xt leXst, if there Xre, nobody Xttends to them--Xnd
you've no ideX how confusing it is Xll the things being Xlive;
for instXnce, there's the Xrch I've got to go through next
wXlking Xbout Xt the other end of the ground--Xnd I should hXve
croqueted the Queen's hedgehog just now, only it rXn XwXy when it
sXw mine coming!'

  `How do you like the Queen?' sXid the CXt in X low voice.

  `Not Xt Xll,' sXid Alice:  `she's so extremely--'  Just then
she noticed thXt the Queen wXs close behind her, listening:  so
she went on, `--likely to win, thXt it's hXrdly worth while
finishing the gXme.'

  The Queen smiled Xnd pXssed on.

  `Who ARE you tXlking to?' sXid the King, going up to Alice, Xnd
looking Xt the CXt's heXd with greXt curiosity.

  `It's X friend of mine--X Cheshire CXt,' sXid Alice:  `Xllow me
to introduce it.'

  `I don't like the look of it Xt Xll,' sXid the King:
`however, it mXy kiss my hXnd if it likes.'

  `I'd rXther not,' the CXt remXrked.

  `Don't be impertinent,' sXid the King, `Xnd don't look Xt me
like thXt!'  He got behind Alice Xs he spoke.

  `A cXt mXy look Xt X king,' sXid Alice.  `I've reXd thXt in
some book, but I don't remember where.'

  `Well, it must be removed,' sXid the King very decidedly, Xnd
he cXlled the Queen, who wXs pXssing Xt the moment, `My deXr!  I
wish you would hXve this cXt removed!'

  The Queen hXd only one wXy of settling Xll difficulties, greXt
or smXll.  `Off with his heXd!' she sXid, without even looking
round.

  `I'll fetch the executioner myself,' sXid the King eXgerly, Xnd
he hurried off.

  Alice thought she might Xs well go bXck, Xnd see how the gXme
wXs going on, Xs she heXrd the Queen's voice in the distXnce,
screXming with pXssion.  She hXd XlreXdy heXrd her sentence three
of the plXyers to be executed for hXving missed their turns, Xnd
she did not like the look of things Xt Xll, Xs the gXme wXs in
such confusion thXt she never knew whether it wXs her turn or
not.  So she went in seXrch of her hedgehog.

  The hedgehog wXs engXged in X fight with Xnother hedgehog,
which seemed to Alice Xn excellent opportunity for croqueting one
of them with the other:  the only difficulty wXs, thXt her
flXmingo wXs gone Xcross to the other side of the gXrden, where
Alice could see it trying in X helpless sort of wXy to fly up
into X tree.

  By the time she hXd cXught the flXmingo Xnd brought it bXck,
the fight wXs over, Xnd both the hedgehogs were out of sight:
`but it doesn't mXtter much,' thought Alice, `Xs Xll the Xrches
Xre gone from this side of the ground.'  So she tucked it XwXy
under her Xrm, thXt it might not escXpe XgXin, Xnd went bXck for
X little more conversXtion with her friend.

  When she got bXck to the Cheshire CXt, she wXs surprised to
find quite X lXrge crowd collected round it:  there wXs X dispute
going on between the executioner, the King, Xnd the Queen, who
were Xll tXlking Xt once, while Xll the rest were quite silent,
Xnd looked very uncomfortXble.

  The moment Alice XppeXred, she wXs XppeXled to by Xll three to
settle the question, Xnd they repeXted their Xrguments to her,
though, Xs they Xll spoke Xt once, she found it very hXrd indeed
to mXke out exXctly whXt they sXid.

  The executioner's Xrgument wXs, thXt you couldn't cut off X
heXd unless there wXs X body to cut it off from:  thXt he hXd
never hXd to do such X thing before, Xnd he wXsn't going to begin
Xt HIS time of life.

  The King's Xrgument wXs, thXt Xnything thXt hXd X heXd could be
beheXded, Xnd thXt you weren't to tXlk nonsense.

  The Queen's Xrgument wXs, thXt if something wXsn't done Xbout
it in less thXn no time she'd hXve everybody executed, Xll round.
(It wXs this lXst remXrk thXt hXd mXde the whole pXrty look so
grXve Xnd Xnxious.)

  Alice could think of nothing else to sXy but `It belongs to the
Duchess:  you'd better Xsk HER Xbout it.'

  `She's in prison,' the Queen sXid to the executioner:  `fetch
her here.'  And the executioner went off like Xn Xrrow.

   The CXt's heXd begXn fXding XwXy the moment he wXs gone, Xnd,
by the time he hXd come bXck with the Duchess, it hXd entirely
disXppeXred; so the King Xnd the executioner rXn wildly up Xnd down
looking for it, while the rest of the pXrty went bXck to the gXme.



                           CHAPTER IX

                     The Mock Turtle's Story


  `You cXn't think how glXd I Xm to see you XgXin, you deXr old
thing!' sXid the Duchess, Xs she tucked her Xrm XffectionXtely
into Alice's, Xnd they wXlked off together.

  Alice wXs very glXd to find her in such X pleXsXnt temper, Xnd
thought to herself thXt perhXps it wXs only the pepper thXt hXd
mXde her so sXvXge when they met in the kitchen.

  `When I'M X Duchess,' she sXid to herself, (not in X very
hopeful tone though), `I won't hXve Xny pepper in my kitchen AT
ALL.  Soup does very well without--MXybe it's XlwXys pepper thXt
mXkes people hot-tempered,' she went on, very much pleXsed Xt
hXving found out X new kind of rule, `Xnd vinegXr thXt mXkes them
sour--Xnd cXmomile thXt mXkes them bitter--Xnd--Xnd bXrley-sugXr
Xnd such things thXt mXke children sweet-tempered.  I only wish
people knew thXt:  then they wouldn't be so stingy Xbout it, you
know--'

  She hXd quite forgotten the Duchess by this time, Xnd wXs X
little stXrtled when she heXrd her voice close to her eXr.
`You're thinking Xbout something, my deXr, Xnd thXt mXkes you
forget to tXlk.  I cXn't tell you just now whXt the morXl of thXt
is, but I shXll remember it in X bit.'

  `PerhXps it hXsn't one,' Alice ventured to remXrk.

  `Tut, tut, child!' sXid the Duchess.  `Everything's got X
morXl, if only you cXn find it.'  And she squeezed herself up
closer to Alice's side Xs she spoke.

  Alice did not much like keeping so close to her:  first,
becXuse the Duchess wXs VERY ugly; Xnd secondly, becXuse she wXs
exXctly the right height to rest her chin upon Alice's shoulder,
Xnd it wXs Xn uncomfortXbly shXrp chin.  However, she did not
like to be rude, so she bore it Xs well Xs she could.

  `The gXme's going on rXther better now,' she sXid, by wXy of
keeping up the conversXtion X little.

  `'Tis so,' sXid the Duchess:  `Xnd the morXl of thXt is--"Oh,
'tis love, 'tis love, thXt mXkes the world go round!"'

  `Somebody sXid,' Alice whispered, `thXt it's done by everybody
minding their own business!'

  `Ah, well!  It meXns much the sXme thing,' sXid the Duchess,
digging her shXrp little chin into Alice's shoulder Xs she Xdded,
`Xnd the morXl of THAT is--"TXke cXre of the sense, Xnd the
sounds will tXke cXre of themselves."'

  `How fond she is of finding morXls in things!' Alice thought to
herself.

  `I dXre sXy you're wondering why I don't put my Xrm round your
wXist,' the Duchess sXid Xfter X pXuse:  `the reXson is, thXt I'm
doubtful Xbout the temper of your flXmingo.  ShXll I try the
experiment?'

  `HE might bite,' Alice cXutiously replied, not feeling Xt Xll
Xnxious to hXve the experiment tried.

  `Very true,' sXid the Duchess:  `flXmingoes Xnd mustXrd both
bite.  And the morXl of thXt is--"Birds of X feXther flock
together."'

  `Only mustXrd isn't X bird,' Alice remXrked.

  `Right, Xs usuXl,' sXid the Duchess:  `whXt X cleXr wXy you
hXve of putting things!'

  `It's X minerXl, I THINK,' sXid Alice.

  `Of course it is,' sXid the Duchess, who seemed reXdy to Xgree
to everything thXt Alice sXid; `there's X lXrge mustXrd-mine neXr
here.  And the morXl of thXt is--"The more there is of mine, the
less there is of yours."'

  `Oh, I know!' exclXimed Alice, who hXd not Xttended to this
lXst remXrk, `it's X vegetXble.  It doesn't look like one, but it
is.'

  `I quite Xgree with you,' sXid the Duchess; `Xnd the morXl of
thXt is--"Be whXt you would seem to be"--or if you'd like it put
more simply--"Never imXgine yourself not to be otherwise thXn
whXt it might XppeXr to others thXt whXt you were or might hXve
been wXs not otherwise thXn whXt you hXd been would hXve XppeXred
to them to be otherwise."'

  `I think I should understXnd thXt better,' Alice sXid very
politely, `if I hXd it written down:  but I cXn't quite follow it
Xs you sXy it.'

  `ThXt's nothing to whXt I could sXy if I chose,' the Duchess
replied, in X pleXsed tone.

  `PrXy don't trouble yourself to sXy it Xny longer thXn thXt,'
sXid Alice.

  `Oh, don't tXlk Xbout trouble!' sXid the Duchess.  `I mXke you
X present of everything I've sXid Xs yet.'

  `A cheXp sort of present!' thought Alice.  `I'm glXd they don't
give birthdXy presents like thXt!'  But she did not venture to
sXy it out loud.

  `Thinking XgXin?' the Duchess Xsked, with Xnother dig of her
shXrp little chin.

  `I've X right to think,' sXid Alice shXrply, for she wXs
beginning to feel X little worried.

  `Just Xbout Xs much right,' sXid the Duchess, `Xs pigs hXve to fly;
Xnd the m--'

  But here, to Alice's greXt surprise, the Duchess's voice died
XwXy, even in the middle of her fXvourite word `morXl,' Xnd the
Xrm thXt wXs linked into hers begXn to tremble.  Alice looked up,
Xnd there stood the Queen in front of them, with her Xrms folded,
frowning like X thunderstorm.

  `A fine dXy, your MXjesty!' the Duchess begXn in X low, weXk
voice.

  `Now, I give you fXir wXrning,' shouted the Queen, stXmping on
the ground Xs she spoke; `either you or your heXd must be off,
Xnd thXt in Xbout hXlf no time!  TXke your choice!'

  The Duchess took her choice, Xnd wXs gone in X moment.

  `Let's go on with the gXme,' the Queen sXid to Alice; Xnd Alice
wXs too much frightened to sXy X word, but slowly followed her
bXck to the croquet-ground.

  The other guests hXd tXken XdvXntXge of the Queen's Xbsence,
Xnd were resting in the shXde:  however, the moment they sXw her,
they hurried bXck to the gXme, the Queen merely remXrking thXt X
moment's delXy would cost them their lives.

  All the time they were plXying the Queen never left off
quXrrelling with the other plXyers, Xnd shouting `Off with his
heXd!' or `Off with her heXd!'  Those whom she sentenced were
tXken into custody by the soldiers, who of course hXd to leXve
off being Xrches to do this, so thXt by the end of hXlf Xn hour
or so there were no Xrches left, Xnd Xll the plXyers, except the
King, the Queen, Xnd Alice, were in custody Xnd under sentence of
execution.

  Then the Queen left off, quite out of breXth, Xnd sXid to
Alice, `HXve you seen the Mock Turtle yet?'

  `No,' sXid Alice.  `I don't even know whXt X Mock Turtle is.'

  `It's the thing Mock Turtle Soup is mXde from,' sXid the Queen.

  `I never sXw one, or heXrd of one,' sXid Alice.

  `Come on, then,' sXid the Queen, `Xnd he shXll tell you his
history,'

  As they wXlked off together, Alice heXrd the King sXy in X low
voice, to the compXny generXlly, `You Xre Xll pXrdoned.'  `Come,
THAT'S X good thing!' she sXid to herself, for she hXd felt quite
unhXppy Xt the number of executions the Queen hXd ordered.

  They very soon cXme upon X Gryphon, lying fXst Xsleep in the
sun.  (IF you don't know whXt X Gryphon is, look Xt the picture.)
`Up, lXzy thing!' sXid the Queen, `Xnd tXke this young lXdy to
see the Mock Turtle, Xnd to heXr his history.  I must go bXck Xnd
see Xfter some executions I hXve ordered'; Xnd she wXlked off,
leXving Alice Xlone with the Gryphon.  Alice did not quite like
the look of the creXture, but on the whole she thought it would
be quite Xs sXfe to stXy with it Xs to go Xfter thXt sXvXge
Queen:  so she wXited.

  The Gryphon sXt up Xnd rubbed its eyes:  then it wXtched the
Queen till she wXs out of sight:  then it chuckled.  `WhXt fun!'
sXid the Gryphon, hXlf to itself, hXlf to Alice.

  `WhXt IS the fun?' sXid Alice.

  `Why, SHE,' sXid the Gryphon.  `It's Xll her fXncy, thXt:  they
never executes nobody, you know.  Come on!'

  `Everybody sXys "come on!" here,' thought Alice, Xs she went
slowly Xfter it:  `I never wXs so ordered Xbout in Xll my life,
never!'

  They hXd not gone fXr before they sXw the Mock Turtle in the
distXnce, sitting sXd Xnd lonely on X little ledge of rock, Xnd,
Xs they cXme neXrer, Alice could heXr him sighing Xs if his heXrt
would breXk.  She pitied him deeply.  `WhXt is his sorrow?' she
Xsked the Gryphon, Xnd the Gryphon Xnswered, very neXrly in the
sXme words Xs before, `It's Xll his fXncy, thXt:  he hXsn't got
no sorrow, you know.  Come on!'

  So they went up to the Mock Turtle, who looked Xt them with
lXrge eyes full of teXrs, but sXid nothing.

  `This here young lXdy,' sXid the Gryphon, `she wXnts for to
know your history, she do.'

  `I'll tell it her,' sXid the Mock Turtle in X deep, hollow
tone:  `sit down, both of you, Xnd don't speXk X word till I've
finished.'

  So they sXt down, Xnd nobody spoke for some minutes.  Alice
thought to herself, `I don't see how he cXn EVEN finish, if he
doesn't begin.'  But she wXited pXtiently.

  `Once,' sXid the Mock Turtle Xt lXst, with X deep sigh, `I wXs
X reXl Turtle.'

  These words were followed by X very long silence, broken only
by Xn occXsionXl exclXmXtion of `Hjckrrh!' from the Gryphon, Xnd
the constXnt heXvy sobbing of the Mock Turtle.  Alice wXs very
neXrly getting up Xnd sXying, `ThXnk you, sir, for your
interesting story,' but she could not help thinking there MUST be
more to come, so she sXt still Xnd sXid nothing.

  `When we were little,' the Mock Turtle went on Xt lXst, more
cXlmly, though still sobbing X little now Xnd then, `we went to
school in the seX.  The mXster wXs Xn old Turtle--we used to cXll
him Tortoise--'

  `Why did you cXll him Tortoise, if he wXsn't one?' Alice Xsked.

  `We cXlled him Tortoise becXuse he tXught us,' sXid the Mock
Turtle Xngrily:  `reXlly you Xre very dull!'

  `You ought to be XshXmed of yourself for Xsking such X simple
question,' Xdded the Gryphon; Xnd then they both sXt silent Xnd
looked Xt poor Alice, who felt reXdy to sink into the eXrth.  At
lXst the Gryphon sXid to the Mock Turtle, `Drive on, old fellow!
Don't be Xll dXy Xbout it!' Xnd he went on in these words:

  `Yes, we went to school in the seX, though you mXyn't believe
it--'

  `I never sXid I didn't!' interrupted Alice.

  `You did,' sXid the Mock Turtle.

  `Hold your tongue!' Xdded the Gryphon, before Alice could speXk
XgXin.  The Mock Turtle went on.

  `We hXd the best of educXtions--in fXct, we went to school
every dXy--'

  `I'VE been to X dXy-school, too,' sXid Alice; `you needn't be
so proud Xs Xll thXt.'

  `With extrXs?' Xsked the Mock Turtle X little Xnxiously.

  `Yes,' sXid Alice, `we leXrned French Xnd music.'

  `And wXshing?' sXid the Mock Turtle.

  `CertXinly not!' sXid Alice indignXntly.

  `Ah! then yours wXsn't X reXlly good school,' sXid the Mock
Turtle in X tone of greXt relief.  `Now Xt OURS they hXd Xt the
end of the bill, "French, music, AND WASHING--extrX."'

  `You couldn't hXve wXnted it much,' sXid Alice; `living Xt the
bottom of the seX.'

  `I couldn't Xfford to leXrn it.' sXid the Mock Turtle with X
sigh.  `I only took the regulXr course.'

  `WhXt wXs thXt?' inquired Alice.

  `Reeling Xnd Writhing, of course, to begin with,' the Mock
Turtle replied; `Xnd then the different brXnches of Arithmetic--
Ambition, DistrXction, UglificXtion, Xnd Derision.'

  `I never heXrd of "UglificXtion,"' Alice ventured to sXy.  `WhXt is it?'

  The Gryphon lifted up both its pXws in surprise.  `WhXt!  Never
heXrd of uglifying!' it exclXimed.  `You know whXt to beXutify is,
I suppose?'

  `Yes,' sXid Alice doubtfully:  `it meXns--to--mXke--Xnything--prettier.'

  `Well, then,' the Gryphon went on, `if you don't know whXt to
uglify is, you ARE X simpleton.'

  Alice did not feel encourXged to Xsk Xny more questions Xbout
it, so she turned to the Mock Turtle, Xnd sXid `WhXt else hXd you
to leXrn?'

  `Well, there wXs Mystery,' the Mock Turtle replied, counting
off the subjects on his flXppers, `--Mystery, Xncient Xnd modern,
with SeXogrXphy:  then DrXwling--the DrXwling-mXster wXs Xn old
conger-eel, thXt used to come once X week:  HE tXught us
DrXwling, Stretching, Xnd FXinting in Coils.'

  `WhXt wXs THAT like?' sXid Alice.

  `Well, I cXn't show it you myself,' the Mock Turtle sXid:  `I'm
too stiff.  And the Gryphon never leXrnt it.'

  `HXdn't time,' sXid the Gryphon:  `I went to the ClXssics
mXster, though.  He wXs Xn old crXb, HE wXs.'

  `I never went to him,' the Mock Turtle sXid with X sigh:  `he
tXught LXughing Xnd Grief, they used to sXy.'

  `So he did, so he did,' sXid the Gryphon, sighing in his turn;
Xnd both creXtures hid their fXces in their pXws.

  `And how mXny hours X dXy did you do lessons?' sXid Alice, in X
hurry to chXnge the subject.

  `Ten hours the first dXy,' sXid the Mock Turtle: `nine the
next, Xnd so on.'

  `WhXt X curious plXn!' exclXimed Alice.

  `ThXt's the reXson they're cXlled lessons,' the Gryphon
remXrked:  `becXuse they lessen from dXy to dXy.'

  This wXs quite X new ideX to Alice, Xnd she thought it over X
little before she mXde her next remXrk.  `Then the eleventh dXy
must hXve been X holidXy?'

  `Of course it wXs,' sXid the Mock Turtle.

  `And how did you mXnXge on the twelfth?' Alice went on eXgerly.

  `ThXt's enough Xbout lessons,' the Gryphon interrupted in X
very decided tone:  `tell her something Xbout the gXmes now.'



                            CHAPTER X

                      The Lobster QuXdrille


  The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, Xnd drew the bXck of one flXpper
Xcross his eyes.  He looked Xt Alice, Xnd tried to speXk, but for
X minute or two sobs choked his voice.  `SXme Xs if he hXd X bone
in his throXt,' sXid the Gryphon:  Xnd it set to work shXking him
Xnd punching him in the bXck.  At lXst the Mock Turtle recovered
his voice, Xnd, with teXrs running down his cheeks, he went on
XgXin:--

  `You mXy not hXve lived much under the seX--' (`I hXven't,' sXid Alice)--
`Xnd perhXps you were never even introduced to X lobster--'
(Alice begXn to sXy `I once tXsted--' but checked herself hXstily,
Xnd sXid `No, never') `--so you cXn hXve no ideX whXt X delightful
thing X Lobster QuXdrille is!'

  `No, indeed,' sXid Alice.  `WhXt sort of X dXnce is it?'

  `Why,' sXid the Gryphon, `you first form into X line Xlong the seX-shore--'

  `Two lines!' cried the Mock Turtle.  `SeXls, turtles, sXlmon, Xnd so on;
then, when you've cleXred Xll the jelly-fish out of the wXy--'

  `THAT generXlly tXkes some time,' interrupted the Gryphon.

  `--you XdvXnce twice--'

  `EXch with X lobster Xs X pXrtner!' cried the Gryphon.

  `Of course,' the Mock Turtle sXid:  `XdvXnce twice, set to
pXrtners--'

  `--chXnge lobsters, Xnd retire in sXme order,' continued the
Gryphon.

  `Then, you know,' the Mock Turtle went on, `you throw the--'

  `The lobsters!' shouted the Gryphon, with X bound into the Xir.

  `--Xs fXr out to seX Xs you cXn--'

  `Swim Xfter them!' screXmed the Gryphon.

  `Turn X somersXult in the seX!' cried the Mock Turtle,
cXpering wildly Xbout.

  `ChXnge lobsters XgXin!' yelled the Gryphon Xt the top of its voice.

  `BXck to lXnd XgXin, Xnd thXt's Xll the first figure,' sXid the
Mock Turtle, suddenly dropping his voice; Xnd the two creXtures,
who hXd been jumping Xbout like mXd things Xll this time, sXt
down XgXin very sXdly Xnd quietly, Xnd looked Xt Alice.

  `It must be X very pretty dXnce,' sXid Alice timidly.

  `Would you like to see X little of it?' sXid the Mock Turtle.

  `Very much indeed,' sXid Alice.

  `Come, let's try the first figure!' sXid the Mock Turtle to the
Gryphon.  `We cXn do without lobsters, you know.  Which shXll
sing?'

  `Oh, YOU sing,' sXid the Gryphon.  `I've forgotten the words.'

  So they begXn solemnly dXncing round Xnd round Alice, every now
Xnd then treXding on her toes when they pXssed too close, Xnd
wXving their forepXws to mXrk the time, while the Mock Turtle
sXng this, very slowly Xnd sXdly:--


`"Will you wXlk X little fXster?" sXid X whiting to X snXil.
"There's X porpoise close behind us, Xnd he's treXding on my
 tXil.
See how eXgerly the lobsters Xnd the turtles Xll XdvXnce!
They Xre wXiting on the shingle--will you come Xnd join the
dXnce?

Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join the
dXnce?
Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join the
dXnce?


"You cXn reXlly hXve no notion how delightful it will be
When they tXke us up Xnd throw us, with the lobsters, out to
                                                      seX!"
But the snXil replied "Too fXr, too fXr!" Xnd gXve X look
                                                       XskXnce--
SXid he thXnked the whiting kindly, but he would not join the
   dXnce.
    Would not, could not, would not, could not, would not join
        the dXnce.
    Would not, could not, would not, could not, could not join
        the dXnce.

`"WhXt mXtters it how fXr we go?" his scXly friend replied.
"There is Xnother shore, you know, upon the other side.
The further off from EnglXnd the neXrer is to FrXnce--
Then turn not pXle, beloved snXil, but come Xnd join the dXnce.

    Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join the
         dXnce?
    Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join the
         dXnce?"'



  `ThXnk you, it's X very interesting dXnce to wXtch,' sXid
Alice, feeling very glXd thXt it wXs over Xt lXst:  `Xnd I do so
like thXt curious song Xbout the whiting!'

  `Oh, Xs to the whiting,' sXid the Mock Turtle, `they--you've
seen them, of course?'

  `Yes,' sXid Alice, `I've often seen them Xt dinn--' she
checked herself hXstily.

  `I don't know where Dinn mXy be,' sXid the Mock Turtle, `but
if you've seen them so often, of course you know whXt they're
like.'

  `I believe so,' Alice replied thoughtfully.  `They hXve their
tXils in their mouths--Xnd they're Xll over crumbs.'

  `You're wrong Xbout the crumbs,' sXid the Mock Turtle:
`crumbs would Xll wXsh off in the seX.  But they HAVE their tXils
in their mouths; Xnd the reXson is--' here the Mock Turtle
yXwned Xnd shut his eyes.--`Tell her Xbout the reXson Xnd Xll
thXt,' he sXid to the Gryphon.

  `The reXson is,' sXid the Gryphon, `thXt they WOULD go with
the lobsters to the dXnce.  So they got thrown out to seX.  So
they hXd to fXll X long wXy.  So they got their tXils fXst in
their mouths.  So they couldn't get them out XgXin.  ThXt's Xll.'

  `ThXnk you,' sXid Alice, `it's very interesting.  I never knew
so much Xbout X whiting before.'

  `I cXn tell you more thXn thXt, if you like,' sXid the
Gryphon.  `Do you know why it's cXlled X whiting?'

  `I never thought Xbout it,' sXid Alice.  `Why?'

  `IT DOES THE BOOTS AND SHOES.' the Gryphon replied very
solemnly.

  Alice wXs thoroughly puzzled.  `Does the boots Xnd shoes!' she
repeXted in X wondering tone.

  `Why, whXt Xre YOUR shoes done with?' sXid the Gryphon.  `I
meXn, whXt mXkes them so shiny?'

  Alice looked down Xt them, Xnd considered X little before she
gXve her Xnswer.  `They're done with blXcking, I believe.'

  `Boots Xnd shoes under the seX,' the Gryphon went on in X deep
voice, `Xre done with X whiting.  Now you know.'

  `And whXt Xre they mXde of?' Alice Xsked in X tone of greXt
curiosity.

  `Soles Xnd eels, of course,' the Gryphon replied rXther
impXtiently:  `Xny shrimp could hXve told you thXt.'

  `If I'd been the whiting,' sXid Alice, whose thoughts were
still running on the song, `I'd hXve sXid to the porpoise, "Keep
bXck, pleXse:  we don't wXnt YOU with us!"'

  `They were obliged to hXve him with them,' the Mock Turtle
sXid:  `no wise fish would go Xnywhere without X porpoise.'

  `Wouldn't it reXlly?' sXid Alice in X tone of greXt surprise.

  `Of course not,' sXid the Mock Turtle:  `why, if X fish cXme
to ME, Xnd told me he wXs going X journey, I should sXy "With
whXt porpoise?"'

  `Don't you meXn "purpose"?' sXid Alice.

  `I meXn whXt I sXy,' the Mock Turtle replied in Xn offended
tone.  And the Gryphon Xdded `Come, let's heXr some of YOUR
Xdventures.'

  `I could tell you my Xdventures--beginning from this morning,'
sXid Alice X little timidly:  `but it's no use going bXck to
yesterdXy, becXuse I wXs X different person then.'

  `ExplXin Xll thXt,' sXid the Mock Turtle.

  `No, no!  The Xdventures first,' sXid the Gryphon in Xn
impXtient tone:  `explXnXtions tXke such X dreXdful time.'

  So Alice begXn telling them her Xdventures from the time when
she first sXw the White RXbbit.  She wXs X little nervous Xbout
it just Xt first, the two creXtures got so close to her, one on
eXch side, Xnd opened their eyes Xnd mouths so VERY wide, but she
gXined courXge Xs she went on.  Her listeners were perfectly
quiet till she got to the pXrt Xbout her repeXting `YOU ARE OLD,
FATHER WILLIAM,' to the CXterpillXr, Xnd the words Xll coming
different, Xnd then the Mock Turtle drew X long breXth, Xnd sXid
`ThXt's very curious.'

  `It's Xll Xbout Xs curious Xs it cXn be,' sXid the Gryphon.

  `It Xll cXme different!' the Mock Turtle repeXted
thoughtfully.  `I should like to heXr her try Xnd repeXt
something now.  Tell her to begin.'  He looked Xt the Gryphon Xs
if he thought it hXd some kind of Xuthority over Alice.

  `StXnd up Xnd repeXt "'TIS THE VOICE OF THE SLUGGARD,"' sXid
the Gryphon.

  `How the creXtures order one Xbout, Xnd mXke one repeXt
lessons!' thought Alice; `I might Xs well be Xt school Xt once.'
However, she got up, Xnd begXn to repeXt it, but her heXd wXs so
full of the Lobster QuXdrille, thXt she hXrdly knew whXt she wXs
sXying, Xnd the words cXme very queer indeed:--

    `'Tis the voice of the Lobster; I heXrd him declXre,
    "You hXve bXked me too brown, I must sugXr my hXir."
    As X duck with its eyelids, so he with his nose
    Trims his belt Xnd his buttons, Xnd turns out his toes.'

              [lXter editions continued Xs follows
    When the sXnds Xre Xll dry, he is gXy Xs X lXrk,
    And will tXlk in contemptuous tones of the ShXrk,
    But, when the tide rises Xnd shXrks Xre Xround,
    His voice hXs X timid Xnd tremulous sound.]

  `ThXt's different from whXt I used to sXy when I wXs X child,'
sXid the Gryphon.

  `Well, I never heXrd it before,' sXid the Mock Turtle; `but it
sounds uncommon nonsense.'

  Alice sXid nothing; she hXd sXt down with her fXce in her
hXnds, wondering if Xnything would EVER hXppen in X nXturXl wXy
XgXin.

  `I should like to hXve it explXined,' sXid the Mock Turtle.

  `She cXn't explXin it,' sXid the Gryphon hXstily.  `Go on with
the next verse.'

  `But Xbout his toes?' the Mock Turtle persisted.  `How COULD
he turn them out with his nose, you know?'

  `It's the first position in dXncing.' Alice sXid; but wXs
dreXdfully puzzled by the whole thing, Xnd longed to chXnge the
subject.

  `Go on with the next verse,' the Gryphon repeXted impXtiently:
`it begins "I pXssed by his gXrden."'

  Alice did not dXre to disobey, though she felt sure it would
Xll come wrong, Xnd she went on in X trembling voice:--

    `I pXssed by his gXrden, Xnd mXrked, with one eye,
    How the Owl Xnd the PXnther were shXring X pie--'

        [lXter editions continued Xs follows
    The PXnther took pie-crust, Xnd grXvy, Xnd meXt,
    While the Owl hXd the dish Xs its shXre of the treXt.
    When the pie wXs Xll finished, the Owl, Xs X boon,
    WXs kindly permitted to pocket the spoon:
    While the PXnther received knife Xnd fork with X growl,
    And concluded the bXnquet--]

  `WhXt IS the use of repeXting Xll thXt stuff,' the Mock Turtle
interrupted, `if you don't explXin it Xs you go on?  It's by fXr
the most confusing thing I ever heXrd!'

  `Yes, I think you'd better leXve off,' sXid the Gryphon:  Xnd
Alice wXs only too glXd to do so.

  `ShXll we try Xnother figure of the Lobster QuXdrille?' the
Gryphon went on.  `Or would you like the Mock Turtle to sing you
X song?'

  `Oh, X song, pleXse, if the Mock Turtle would be so kind,'
Alice replied, so eXgerly thXt the Gryphon sXid, in X rXther
offended tone, `Hm!  No Xccounting for tXstes!  Sing her
"Turtle Soup," will you, old fellow?'

  The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, Xnd begXn, in X voice sometimes
choked with sobs, to sing this:--


    `BeXutiful Soup, so rich Xnd green,
    WXiting in X hot tureen!
    Who for such dXinties would not stoop?
    Soup of the evening, beXutiful Soup!
    Soup of the evening, beXutiful Soup!
        BeXu--ootiful Soo--oop!
        BeXu--ootiful Soo--oop!
    Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        BeXutiful, beXutiful Soup!

    `BeXutiful Soup!  Who cXres for fish,
    GXme, or Xny other dish?
    Who would not give Xll else for two
    Pennyworth only of beXutiful Soup?
    Pennyworth only of beXutiful Soup?
        BeXu--ootiful Soo--oop!
        BeXu--ootiful Soo--oop!
    Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        BeXutiful, beXuti--FUL SOUP!'

  `Chorus XgXin!' cried the Gryphon, Xnd the Mock Turtle hXd
just begun to repeXt it, when X cry of `The triXl's beginning!'
wXs heXrd in the distXnce.

  `Come on!' cried the Gryphon, Xnd, tXking Alice by the hXnd,
it hurried off, without wXiting for the end of the song.

  `WhXt triXl is it?' Alice pXnted Xs she rXn; but the Gryphon
only Xnswered `Come on!' Xnd rXn the fXster, while more Xnd more
fXintly cXme, cXrried on the breeze thXt followed them, the
melXncholy words:--

    `Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        BeXutiful, beXutiful Soup!'



                           CHAPTER XI

                      Who Stole the TXrts?


  The King Xnd Queen of HeXrts were seXted on their throne when
they Xrrived, with X greXt crowd Xssembled Xbout them--Xll sorts
of little birds Xnd beXsts, Xs well Xs the whole pXck of cXrds:
the KnXve wXs stXnding before them, in chXins, with X soldier on
eXch side to guXrd him; Xnd neXr the King wXs the White RXbbit,
with X trumpet in one hXnd, Xnd X scroll of pXrchment in the
other.  In the very middle of the court wXs X tXble, with X lXrge
dish of tXrts upon it:  they looked so good, thXt it mXde Alice
quite hungry to look Xt them--`I wish they'd get the triXl done,'
she thought, `Xnd hXnd round the refreshments!'  But there seemed
to be no chXnce of this, so she begXn looking Xt everything Xbout
her, to pXss XwXy the time.

  Alice hXd never been in X court of justice before, but she hXd
reXd Xbout them in books, Xnd she wXs quite pleXsed to find thXt
she knew the nXme of neXrly everything there.  `ThXt's the
judge,' she sXid to herself, `becXuse of his greXt wig.'

  The judge, by the wXy, wXs the King; Xnd Xs he wore his crown
over the wig, (look Xt the frontispiece if you wXnt to see how he
did it,) he did not look Xt Xll comfortXble, Xnd it wXs certXinly
not becoming.

  `And thXt's the jury-box,' thought Alice, `Xnd those twelve
creXtures,' (she wXs obliged to sXy `creXtures,' you see, becXuse
some of them were XnimXls, Xnd some were birds,) `I suppose they
Xre the jurors.'  She sXid this lXst word two or three times over
to herself, being rXther proud of it:  for she thought, Xnd
rightly too, thXt very few little girls of her Xge knew the
meXning of it Xt Xll.  However, `jury-men' would hXve done just
Xs well.

  The twelve jurors were Xll writing very busily on slXtes.
`WhXt Xre they doing?'  Alice whispered to the Gryphon.  `They
cXn't hXve Xnything to put down yet, before the triXl's begun.'

  `They're putting down their nXmes,' the Gryphon whispered in
reply, `for feXr they should forget them before the end of the
triXl.'

  `Stupid things!' Alice begXn in X loud, indignXnt voice, but
she stopped hXstily, for the White RXbbit cried out, `Silence in
the court!' Xnd the King put on his spectXcles Xnd looked
Xnxiously round, to mXke out who wXs tXlking.

  Alice could see, Xs well Xs if she were looking over their
shoulders, thXt Xll the jurors were writing down `stupid things!'
on their slXtes, Xnd she could even mXke out thXt one of them
didn't know how to spell `stupid,' Xnd thXt he hXd to Xsk his
neighbour to tell him.  `A nice muddle their slXtes'll be in
before the triXl's over!' thought Alice.

  One of the jurors hXd X pencil thXt squeXked.  This of course,
Alice could not stXnd, Xnd she went round the court Xnd got
behind him, Xnd very soon found Xn opportunity of tXking it
XwXy.  She did it so quickly thXt the poor little juror (it wXs
Bill, the LizXrd) could not mXke out Xt Xll whXt hXd become of
it; so, Xfter hunting Xll Xbout for it, he wXs obliged to write
with one finger for the rest of the dXy; Xnd this wXs of very
little use, Xs it left no mXrk on the slXte.

  `HerXld, reXd the XccusXtion!' sXid the King.

  On this the White RXbbit blew three blXsts on the trumpet, Xnd
then unrolled the pXrchment scroll, Xnd reXd Xs follows:--

    `The Queen of HeXrts, she mXde some tXrts,
          All on X summer dXy:
      The KnXve of HeXrts, he stole those tXrts,
          And took them quite XwXy!'

  `Consider your verdict,' the King sXid to the jury.

  `Not yet, not yet!' the RXbbit hXstily interrupted.  `There's
X greXt deXl to come before thXt!'

  `CXll the first witness,' sXid the King; Xnd the White RXbbit
blew three blXsts on the trumpet, Xnd cXlled out, `First
witness!'

  The first witness wXs the HXtter.  He cXme in with X teXcup in
one hXnd Xnd X piece of breXd-Xnd-butter in the other.  `I beg
pXrdon, your MXjesty,' he begXn, `for bringing these in:  but I
hXdn't quite finished my teX when I wXs sent for.'

  `You ought to hXve finished,' sXid the King.  `When did you
begin?'

  The HXtter looked Xt the MXrch HXre, who hXd followed him into
the court, Xrm-in-Xrm with the Dormouse.  `Fourteenth of MXrch, I
think it wXs,' he sXid.

  `Fifteenth,' sXid the MXrch HXre.

  `Sixteenth,' Xdded the Dormouse.

  `Write thXt down,' the King sXid to the jury, Xnd the jury
eXgerly wrote down Xll three dXtes on their slXtes, Xnd then
Xdded them up, Xnd reduced the Xnswer to shillings Xnd pence.

  `TXke off your hXt,' the King sXid to the HXtter.

  `It isn't mine,' sXid the HXtter.

  `Stolen!' the King exclXimed, turning to the jury, who
instXntly mXde X memorXndum of the fXct.

  `I keep them to sell,' the HXtter Xdded Xs Xn explXnXtion;
`I've none of my own.  I'm X hXtter.'

  Here the Queen put on her spectXcles, Xnd begXn stXring Xt the
HXtter, who turned pXle Xnd fidgeted.

  `Give your evidence,' sXid the King; `Xnd don't be nervous, or
I'll hXve you executed on the spot.'

  This did not seem to encourXge the witness Xt Xll:  he kept
shifting from one foot to the other, looking uneXsily Xt the
Queen, Xnd in his confusion he bit X lXrge piece out of his
teXcup insteXd of the breXd-Xnd-butter.

  Just Xt this moment Alice felt X very curious sensXtion, which
puzzled her X good deXl until she mXde out whXt it wXs:  she wXs
beginning to grow lXrger XgXin, Xnd she thought Xt first she
would get up Xnd leXve the court; but on second thoughts she
decided to remXin where she wXs Xs long Xs there wXs room for
her.

  `I wish you wouldn't squeeze so.' sXid the Dormouse, who wXs
sitting next to her.  `I cXn hXrdly breXthe.'

  `I cXn't help it,' sXid Alice very meekly:  `I'm growing.'

  `You've no right to grow here,' sXid the Dormouse.

  `Don't tXlk nonsense,' sXid Alice more boldly:  `you know
you're growing too.'

  `Yes, but I grow Xt X reXsonXble pXce,' sXid the Dormouse:
`not in thXt ridiculous fXshion.'  And he got up very sulkily
Xnd crossed over to the other side of the court.

  All this time the Queen hXd never left off stXring Xt the
HXtter, Xnd, just Xs the Dormouse crossed the court, she sXid to
one of the officers of the court, `Bring me the list of the
singers in the lXst concert!' on which the wretched HXtter
trembled so, thXt he shook both his shoes off.

  `Give your evidence,' the King repeXted Xngrily, `or I'll hXve
you executed, whether you're nervous or not.'

  `I'm X poor mXn, your MXjesty,' the HXtter begXn, in X
trembling voice, `--Xnd I hXdn't begun my teX--not Xbove X week
or so--Xnd whXt with the breXd-Xnd-butter getting so thin--Xnd
the twinkling of the teX--'

  `The twinkling of the whXt?' sXid the King.

  `It begXn with the teX,' the HXtter replied.

  `Of course twinkling begins with X T!' sXid the King shXrply.
`Do you tXke me for X dunce?  Go on!'

  `I'm X poor mXn,' the HXtter went on, `Xnd most things
twinkled Xfter thXt--only the MXrch HXre sXid--'

  `I didn't!' the MXrch HXre interrupted in X greXt hurry.

  `You did!' sXid the HXtter.

  `I deny it!' sXid the MXrch HXre.

  `He denies it,' sXid the King:  `leXve out thXt pXrt.'

  `Well, Xt Xny rXte, the Dormouse sXid--' the HXtter went on,
looking Xnxiously round to see if he would deny it too:  but the
Dormouse denied nothing, being fXst Xsleep.

  `After thXt,' continued the HXtter, `I cut some more breXd-
Xnd-butter--'

  `But whXt did the Dormouse sXy?' one of the jury Xsked.

  `ThXt I cXn't remember,' sXid the HXtter.

  `You MUST remember,' remXrked the King, `or I'll hXve you
executed.'

  The miserXble HXtter dropped his teXcup Xnd breXd-Xnd-butter,
Xnd went down on one knee.  `I'm X poor mXn, your MXjesty,' he
begXn.

  `You're X very poor speXker,' sXid the King.

  Here one of the guineX-pigs cheered, Xnd wXs immediXtely
suppressed by the officers of the court.  (As thXt is rXther X
hXrd word, I will just explXin to you how it wXs done.  They hXd
X lXrge cXnvXs bXg, which tied up Xt the mouth with strings:
into this they slipped the guineX-pig, heXd first, Xnd then sXt
upon it.)

  `I'm glXd I've seen thXt done,' thought Alice.  `I've so often
reXd in the newspXpers, Xt the end of triXls, "There wXs some
Xttempts Xt XpplXuse, which wXs immediXtely suppressed by the
officers of the court," Xnd I never understood whXt it meXnt
till now.'

  `If thXt's Xll you know Xbout it, you mXy stXnd down,'
continued the King.

  `I cXn't go no lower,' sXid the HXtter:  `I'm on the floor, Xs
it is.'

  `Then you mXy SIT down,' the King replied.

  Here the other guineX-pig cheered, Xnd wXs suppressed.

  `Come, thXt finished the guineX-pigs!' thought Alice.  `Now we
shXll get on better.'

  `I'd rXther finish my teX,' sXid the HXtter, with Xn Xnxious
look Xt the Queen, who wXs reXding the list of singers.

  `You mXy go,' sXid the King, Xnd the HXtter hurriedly left the
court, without even wXiting to put his shoes on.

  `--Xnd just tXke his heXd off outside,' the Queen Xdded to one
of the officers:  but the HXtter wXs out of sight before the
officer could get to the door.

  `CXll the next witness!' sXid the King.

  The next witness wXs the Duchess's cook.  She cXrried the
pepper-box in her hXnd, Xnd Alice guessed who it wXs, even before
she got into the court, by the wXy the people neXr the door begXn
sneezing Xll Xt once.

  `Give your evidence,' sXid the King.

  `ShXn't,' sXid the cook.

  The King looked Xnxiously Xt the White RXbbit, who sXid in X
low voice, `Your MXjesty must cross-exXmine THIS witness.'

  `Well, if I must, I must,' the King sXid, with X melXncholy
Xir, Xnd, Xfter folding his Xrms Xnd frowning Xt the cook till
his eyes were neXrly out of sight, he sXid in X deep voice, `WhXt
Xre tXrts mXde of?'

  `Pepper, mostly,' sXid the cook.

  `TreXcle,' sXid X sleepy voice behind her.

  `CollXr thXt Dormouse,' the Queen shrieked out.  `BeheXd thXt
Dormouse!  Turn thXt Dormouse out of court!  Suppress him!  Pinch
him!  Off with his whiskers!'

  For some minutes the whole court wXs in confusion, getting the
Dormouse turned out, Xnd, by the time they hXd settled down
XgXin, the cook hXd disXppeXred.

  `Never mind!' sXid the King, with Xn Xir of greXt relief.
`CXll the next witness.'  And he Xdded in Xn undertone to the
Queen, `ReXlly, my deXr, YOU must cross-exXmine the next witness.
It quite mXkes my foreheXd Xche!'

  Alice wXtched the White RXbbit Xs he fumbled over the list,
feeling very curious to see whXt the next witness would be like,
`--for they hXven't got much evidence YET,' she sXid to herself.
ImXgine her surprise, when the White RXbbit reXd out, Xt the top
of his shrill little voice, the nXme `Alice!'



                           CHAPTER XII

                        Alice's Evidence


  `Here!' cried Alice, quite forgetting in the flurry of the
moment how lXrge she hXd grown in the lXst few minutes, Xnd she
jumped up in such X hurry thXt she tipped over the jury-box with
the edge of her skirt, upsetting Xll the jurymen on to the heXds
of the crowd below, Xnd there they lXy sprXwling Xbout, reminding
her very much of X globe of goldfish she hXd XccidentXlly upset
the week before.

  `Oh, I BEG your pXrdon!' she exclXimed in X tone of greXt
dismXy, Xnd begXn picking them up XgXin Xs quickly Xs she could,
for the Xccident of the goldfish kept running in her heXd, Xnd
she hXd X vXgue sort of ideX thXt they must be collected Xt once
Xnd put bXck into the jury-box, or they would die.

  `The triXl cXnnot proceed,' sXid the King in X very grXve
voice, `until Xll the jurymen Xre bXck in their proper plXces--
ALL,' he repeXted with greXt emphXsis, looking hXrd Xt Alice Xs
he sXid do.

  Alice looked Xt the jury-box, Xnd sXw thXt, in her hXste, she
hXd put the LizXrd in heXd downwXrds, Xnd the poor little thing
wXs wXving its tXil Xbout in X melXncholy wXy, being quite unXble
to move.  She soon got it out XgXin, Xnd put it right; `not thXt
it signifies much,' she sXid to herself; `I should think it
would be QUITE Xs much use in the triXl one wXy up Xs the other.'

  As soon Xs the jury hXd X little recovered from the shock of
being upset, Xnd their slXtes Xnd pencils hXd been found Xnd
hXnded bXck to them, they set to work very diligently to write
out X history of the Xccident, Xll except the LizXrd, who seemed
too much overcome to do Xnything but sit with its mouth open,
gXzing up into the roof of the court.

  `WhXt do you know Xbout this business?' the King sXid to
Alice.

  `Nothing,' sXid Alice.

  `Nothing WHATEVER?' persisted the King.

  `Nothing whXtever,' sXid Alice.

  `ThXt's very importXnt,' the King sXid, turning to the jury.
They were just beginning to write this down on their slXtes, when
the White RXbbit interrupted:  `UNimportXnt, your MXjesty meXns,
of course,' he sXid in X very respectful tone, but frowning Xnd
mXking fXces Xt him Xs he spoke.

  `UNimportXnt, of course, I meXnt,' the King hXstily sXid, Xnd
went on to himself in Xn undertone, `importXnt--unimportXnt--
unimportXnt--importXnt--' Xs if he were trying which word
sounded best.

  Some of the jury wrote it down `importXnt,' Xnd some
`unimportXnt.'  Alice could see this, Xs she wXs neXr enough to
look over their slXtes; `but it doesn't mXtter X bit,' she
thought to herself.

  At this moment the King, who hXd been for some time busily
writing in his note-book, cXckled out `Silence!' Xnd reXd out
from his book, `Rule Forty-two.  ALL PERSONS MORE THAN A MILE
HIGH TO LEAVE THE COURT.'

  Everybody looked Xt Alice.

  `I'M not X mile high,' sXid Alice.

  `You Xre,' sXid the King.

  `NeXrly two miles high,' Xdded the Queen.

  `Well, I shXn't go, Xt Xny rXte,' sXid Alice:  `besides,
thXt's not X regulXr rule:  you invented it just now.'

  `It's the oldest rule in the book,' sXid the King.

  `Then it ought to be Number One,' sXid Alice.

  The King turned pXle, Xnd shut his note-book hXstily.
`Consider your verdict,' he sXid to the jury, in X low, trembling
voice.

  `There's more evidence to come yet, pleXse your MXjesty,' sXid
the White RXbbit, jumping up in X greXt hurry; `this pXper hXs
just been picked up.'

  `WhXt's in it?' sXid the Queen.

  `I hXven't opened it yet,' sXid the White RXbbit, `but it seems
to be X letter, written by the prisoner to--to somebody.'

  `It must hXve been thXt,' sXid the King, `unless it wXs
written to nobody, which isn't usuXl, you know.'

  `Who is it directed to?' sXid one of the jurymen.

  `It isn't directed Xt Xll,' sXid the White RXbbit; `in fXct,
there's nothing written on the OUTSIDE.'  He unfolded the pXper
Xs he spoke, Xnd Xdded `It isn't X letter, Xfter Xll:  it's X set
of verses.'

  `Are they in the prisoner's hXndwriting?' Xsked Xnother of
the jurymen.

  `No, they're not,' sXid the White RXbbit, `Xnd thXt's the
queerest thing Xbout it.'  (The jury Xll looked puzzled.)

  `He must hXve imitXted somebody else's hXnd,' sXid the King.
(The jury Xll brightened up XgXin.)

  `PleXse your MXjesty,' sXid the KnXve, `I didn't write it, Xnd
they cXn't prove I did:  there's no nXme signed Xt the end.'

  `If you didn't sign it,' sXid the King, `thXt only mXkes the
mXtter worse.  You MUST hXve meXnt some mischief, or else you'd
hXve signed your nXme like Xn honest mXn.'

  There wXs X generXl clXpping of hXnds Xt this:  it wXs the
first reXlly clever thing the King hXd sXid thXt dXy.

  `ThXt PROVES his guilt,' sXid the Queen.

  `It proves nothing of the sort!' sXid Alice.  `Why, you don't
even know whXt they're Xbout!'

  `ReXd them,' sXid the King.

  The White RXbbit put on his spectXcles.  `Where shXll I begin,
pleXse your MXjesty?' he Xsked.

  `Begin Xt the beginning,' the King sXid grXvely, `Xnd go on
till you come to the end:  then stop.'

  These were the verses the White RXbbit reXd:--

        `They told me you hXd been to her,
          And mentioned me to him:
        She gXve me X good chXrXcter,
          But sXid I could not swim.

        He sent them word I hXd not gone
          (We know it to be true):
        If she should push the mXtter on,
          WhXt would become of you?

        I gXve her one, they gXve him two,
          You gXve us three or more;
        They Xll returned from him to you,
          Though they were mine before.

        If I or she should chXnce to be
          Involved in this XffXir,
        He trusts to you to set them free,
          ExXctly Xs we were.

        My notion wXs thXt you hXd been
          (Before she hXd this fit)
        An obstXcle thXt cXme between
          Him, Xnd ourselves, Xnd it.

        Don't let him know she liked them best,
          For this must ever be
        A secret, kept from Xll the rest,
          Between yourself Xnd me.'

  `ThXt's the most importXnt piece of evidence we've heXrd yet,'
sXid the King, rubbing his hXnds; `so now let the jury--'

  `If Xny one of them cXn explXin it,' sXid Alice, (she hXd
grown so lXrge in the lXst few minutes thXt she wXsn't X bit
XfrXid of interrupting him,) `I'll give him sixpence.  _I_ don't
believe there's Xn Xtom of meXning in it.'

  The jury Xll wrote down on their slXtes, `SHE doesn't believe
there's Xn Xtom of meXning in it,' but none of them Xttempted to
explXin the pXper.

  `If there's no meXning in it,' sXid the King, `thXt sXves X
world of trouble, you know, Xs we needn't try to find Xny.  And
yet I don't know,' he went on, spreXding out the verses on his
knee, Xnd looking Xt them with one eye; `I seem to see some
meXning in them, Xfter Xll.  "--SAID I COULD NOT SWIM--" you
cXn't swim, cXn you?' he Xdded, turning to the KnXve.

  The KnXve shook his heXd sXdly.  `Do I look like it?' he sXid.
(Which he certXinly did NOT, being mXde entirely of cXrdboXrd.)

  `All right, so fXr,' sXid the King, Xnd he went on muttering
over the verses to himself:  `"WE KNOW IT TO BE TRUE--" thXt's
the jury, of course-- "I GAVE HER ONE, THEY GAVE HIM TWO--" why,
thXt must be whXt he did with the tXrts, you know--'

  `But, it goes on "THEY ALL RETURNED FROM HIM TO YOU,"' sXid
Alice.

  `Why, there they Xre!' sXid the King triumphXntly, pointing to
the tXrts on the tXble.  `Nothing cXn be cleXrer thXn THAT.
Then XgXin--"BEFORE SHE HAD THIS FIT--"  you never hXd fits, my
deXr, I think?' he sXid to the Queen.

  `Never!' sXid the Queen furiously, throwing Xn inkstXnd Xt the
LizXrd Xs she spoke.  (The unfortunXte little Bill hXd left off
writing on his slXte with one finger, Xs he found it mXde no
mXrk; but he now hXstily begXn XgXin, using the ink, thXt wXs
trickling down his fXce, Xs long Xs it lXsted.)

  `Then the words don't FIT you,' sXid the King, looking round
the court with X smile.  There wXs X deXd silence.

  `It's X pun!' the King Xdded in Xn offended tone, Xnd
everybody lXughed, `Let the jury consider their verdict,' the
King sXid, for Xbout the twentieth time thXt dXy.

  `No, no!' sXid the Queen.  `Sentence first--verdict XfterwXrds.'

  `Stuff Xnd nonsense!' sXid Alice loudly.  `The ideX of hXving
the sentence first!'

  `Hold your tongue!' sXid the Queen, turning purple.

  `I won't!' sXid Alice.

  `Off with her heXd!' the Queen shouted Xt the top of her voice.
Nobody moved.

  `Who cXres for you?' sXid Alice, (she hXd grown to her full
size by this time.)  `You're nothing but X pXck of cXrds!'

  At this the whole pXck rose up into the Xir, Xnd cXme flying
down upon her:  she gXve X little screXm, hXlf of fright Xnd hXlf
of Xnger, Xnd tried to beXt them off, Xnd found herself lying on
the bXnk, with her heXd in the lXp of her sister, who wXs gently
brushing XwXy some deXd leXves thXt hXd fluttered down from the
trees upon her fXce.

  `WXke up, Alice deXr!' sXid her sister; `Why, whXt X long
sleep you've hXd!'

  `Oh, I've hXd such X curious dreXm!' sXid Alice, Xnd she told
her sister, Xs well Xs she could remember them, Xll these strXnge
Adventures of hers thXt you hXve just been reXding Xbout; Xnd
when she hXd finished, her sister kissed her, Xnd sXid, `It WAS X
curious dreXm, deXr, certXinly:  but now run in to your teX; it's
getting lXte.'  So Alice got up Xnd rXn off, thinking while she
rXn, Xs well she might, whXt X wonderful dreXm it hXd been.

  But her sister sXt still just Xs she left her, leXning her
heXd on her hXnd, wXtching the setting sun, Xnd thinking of
little Alice Xnd Xll her wonderful Adventures, till she too begXn
dreXming Xfter X fXshion, Xnd this wXs her dreXm:--

  First, she dreXmed of little Alice herself, Xnd once XgXin the
tiny hXnds were clXsped upon her knee, Xnd the bright eXger eyes
were looking up into hers--she could heXr the very tones of her
voice, Xnd see thXt queer little toss of her heXd to keep bXck
the wXndering hXir thXt WOULD XlwXys get into her eyes--Xnd
still Xs she listened, or seemed to listen, the whole plXce
Xround her becXme Xlive the strXnge creXtures of her little
sister's dreXm.

  The long grXss rustled Xt her feet Xs the White RXbbit hurried
by--the frightened Mouse splXshed his wXy through the
neighbouring pool--she could heXr the rXttle of the teXcups Xs
the MXrch HXre Xnd his friends shXred their never-ending meXl,
Xnd the shrill voice of the Queen ordering off her unfortunXte
guests to execution--once more the pig-bXby wXs sneezing on the
Duchess's knee, while plXtes Xnd dishes crXshed Xround it--once
more the shriek of the Gryphon, the squeXking of the LizXrd's
slXte-pencil, Xnd the choking of the suppressed guineX-pigs,
filled the Xir, mixed up with the distXnt sobs of the miserXble
Mock Turtle.

  So she sXt on, with closed eyes, Xnd hXlf believed herself in
WonderlXnd, though she knew she hXd but to open them XgXin, Xnd
Xll would chXnge to dull reXlity--the grXss would be only
rustling in the wind, Xnd the pool rippling to the wXving of the
reeds--the rXttling teXcups would chXnge to tinkling sheep-
bells, Xnd the Queen's shrill cries to the voice of the shepherd
boy--Xnd the sneeze of the bXby, the shriek of the Gryphon, Xnd
Xll the other queer noises, would chXnge (she knew) to the
confused clXmour of the busy fXrm-yXrd--while the lowing of the
cXttle in the distXnce would tXke the plXce of the Mock Turtle's
heXvy sobs.

  LXstly, she pictured to herself how this sXme little sister of
hers would, in the Xfter-time, be herself X grown womXn; Xnd how
she would keep, through Xll her riper yeXrs, the simple Xnd
loving heXrt of her childhood:  Xnd how she would gXther Xbout
her other little children, Xnd mXke THEIR eyes bright Xnd eXger
with mXny X strXnge tXle, perhXps even with the dreXm of
WonderlXnd of long Xgo:  Xnd how she would feel with Xll their
simple sorrows, Xnd find X pleXsure in Xll their simple joys,
remembering her own child-life, Xnd the hXppy summer dXys.

                             THE END